UnicodeRanges
	0020	024F
	2000	206F





GameTitle	Children of a Dead Earth

Speaker Tactical Officer	Tactical Officer
Speaker Astrogation Officer	Astrogation Officer
Speaker First Officer	First Officer
Speaker High Command	High Command
Speaker Captain Mendoza	Captain Mendoza
Speaker Adm. Sutedja	Adm. Sutedja
Speaker Cmdr. Rahimi	Cmdr. Rahimi
Speaker USF Cdre. Vanhanen	USF Cdre. Vanhanen
Speaker Stationmaster Zhang	Stationmaster Zhang
Speaker USF Rear Adm. Sullivan	USF Rear Adm. Sullivan
Speaker Captain Chandra	Captain Chandra
Speaker Senator Chandra	Senator Chandra
Speaker USF Lt. Cmdr. Xiping	USF Lt. Cmdr. Xiping
Speaker USF Adm. "Overkill" Voitenko	USF Adm. "Overkill" Voitenko
Speaker USF Lt. Cmdr. Tlaloc	USF Lt. Cmdr. Tlaloc
Speaker NSF Adm. Fujioka	NSF Adm. Fujioka
Speaker USF Rear Adm. Pacari	USF Rear Adm. Pacari
Speaker USF Cdre. Dugar	USF Cdre. Dugar
Speaker USF Rear Adm. Smith	USF Rear Adm. Smith
Speaker USF Fleet Adm. Jefferson	USF Fleet Adm. Jefferson
Speaker RFP President	RFP President

Level Distress Call at Luna	Distress Call at Luna
Level Distress Call at Luna Description
	Welcome to your first command, Admiral. Please pay no mind to all the talk about nepotism.
	In case you're not aware already, the USTA's recent acquisitions of contested asteroids in the belt has caused severely rising tensions, and the leaders and myself at high command are expecting the worst. That means we will be needing all the commanders we can get in the coming months, so your complete lack of experience is not a problem. You will have several subordinate officers who will guide you through basic orbital mechanics for this mission.
	One of our Cargo Freighters, a tug carrying valuable radionuclides to Luna from the belt, has suffered a ruptured fuel tank, and lost all propellant. Fortunately, it managed to inject itself into high orbit around Luna before it lost all delta-v. The crew has patched up the hole, so it should be okay to refuel them at this point. Luna's our second greatest claim in the solar system behind Mars, so we have plenty of spacecraft and stations in orbit to help them out.
	Your job is to take a Methane Tanker currently docked at a Methane Depot, and rendezvous with the freighter. Refuel the Cargo Freighter, and then bring it back to the Methane Depot to complete the mission. Should be a simple task, and will prepare you for the more difficult missions ahead. Again, your officers will explain every step of the way.
	And finally, give my regards to your mother, Madame President. Good luck!
Level Distress Call at Luna ShortDescription	Refuel a cargo freighter orbiting Luna with a ruptured fuel tank, and then rendezvous it with a space station.

Level1Tutorial1	Greetings, Admiral! A pleasure to serve under you! Let's learn some camera controls first. Rotate the camera by click-dragging with the right mouse button, or by pressing the [W][A][S][D] keys.
Level1Tutorial2	Zoom in and out with the mouse wheel, or the [Q][E] keys.
Level1Tutorial3	Pan the camera by click-dragging with the left mouse button, or by holding [Shift] with the [W][A][S][D] keys.
Level1Tutorial4	Roll the camera by click-dragging the middle mouse button left and right, or by holding [Shift] with the [Q][E] keys.
Level1Tutorial5	That's it! Let's do a little wandering around this planetary system to get used to the camera controls. Select Earth right now. You may need to rotate your camera to find it on screen first.
Level1Tutorial6	Let's recenter the camera around our selection now. You can use this button, or with [C].
Level1Tutorial7	Good! However, there is little reason to interact with Earth right now, so let's return to Luna. Select Luna. It may create a dropdown menu when you select it since other objects are nearby.
Level1Tutorial8	Then recenter the camera again, to get us back to Luna.
Level1Tutorial9	Great! Also, if you ever need to review these messages, you can find them here.
Level1Tutorial10	Back out when ready.
Level1Tutorial11	The green diamond and square icons near Luna are your fleets of ships. Select the fleet indicated by the diamond shape.
Level1Tutorial12	This is a Cargo Freighter. Notice that its delta-v is zero, meaning this spacecraft can't change course at all, and is stuck in it's default orbit. Your mission is to refuel it.
Level1Tutorial13	Check on our other fleet. Select the square icon.
Level1Tutorial14	Inspect the fleet with this button, or with [F].
Level1Tutorial15	In this fleet, we have both a Methane Depot space station, and a Methane Tanker spacecraft. Take a look at the delta-v that the tanker has.
Level1Tutorial16	The Methane Tanker could use some more delta-v, so lets refuel it with the Methane Depot. Select the Methane Depot.
Level1Tutorial17	Now activate the Methane Depot's auto-refueler. Select the entire section to do so.
Level1Tutorial18	Notice that the Methane Tanker's delta-v is increasing as the depot refuels it. As soon as you exit this view, the refueling will finish automatically, so you don't have to wait for it.
Level1Tutorial19	We need to do one more thing: split the tanker out into a separate fleet so it can rendezvous with the stranded freighter. Split out the tanker now.
Level1Tutorial20	Good! Return to the orbital view.
Level1Tutorial21	Make sure you can see all of the fleets and their orbits right now. There should be the cargo freighter in a wide orbit, and two other fleets in the same tight orbit, right on top of one another.
Level1Tutorial22	Now run the turn. Either hit the Run Turn button, or hit [Enter] or [Space].
Level1Tutorial23	As you can see, a short amount of time passed, and all of the fleets orbited Luna. The Cargo Freighter orbited slower your other fleets. This is because objects in wider orbits move slower.
Level1Tutorial24	Let's make turns six hours long now.
Level1Tutorial25	Run another turn.
Level1Tutorial26	You can use this to speed up or slow down time like this as necessary. For now, lets stick with one hour long turns.
Level1Tutorial27	Let's select the Tanker, and then we'll begin orbital maneuvers.
Level1Tutorial28	Start a new trajectory with this button or with the [T] key. This will allow you to begin changing your orbit.
Level1Tutorial29	Notice that your green orbit has changed into a light blue line. That is your future trajectory, and you can add thruster burns to it to alter it's path.
Level1Tutorial30	Making sure your fleet is selected, mouse over parts of the trajectory. You'll see that it "looks into the future", showing where things are at that point in the future.
Level1Tutorial31	Select any position on the light blue trajectory line. Closer points to your fleet are closer in time.
Level1Tutorial32	Notice that we have effectively frozen the "future lookahead" to the time that your fleet will be at this point.
Level1Tutorial33	The blue thrust handle adds out-of-plane burns. This mission is entirely 2-dimensional, so there is no out of plane. Never use this handle for this mission.
Level1Tutorial34	The green thrust handle adds radial burns. This means directly towards Luna, or directly away from Luna.
Level1Tutorial35	The red thrust handle adds burns tangential to your orbit direction. It is the most efficient way to tighten or widen your orbit.
Level1Tutorial36	Select the tangential (red) handle now and widen your trajectory until it crosses the freighter's orbit. You do not need to hold down the mouse to move it.
Level1Tutorial37	Your burns appear on the left. You can select or clear them here if you make a mistake.
Level1Tutorial38	Once your trajectory intersects the freighter's orbit, a white planet icon will appear on your trajectory, indicating you are close enough to match the freighter's orbit. Click the icon to do so.
Level1Tutorial39	Good! If you have successfully matched the orbit, your trajectory will now be ending in a white diamond icon.
Level1Tutorial40	If you have matched the orbit, run the turn until the trajectory completes.
Level1Tutorial41	You're in the same orbit, but you'll never get closer to the target, because two fleets in the same orbit move at identical speeds. To catch them, we need either a wider or tighter orbit.
Level1Tutorial42	Making sure you have the fleet selected, let's do something called orbit phasing. Start a new trajectory.
Level1Tutorial43	Select any point on the light blue trajectory line. Points along the trajectory closer to your fleet are nearer in time.
Level1Tutorial44	We're only going to be using the tangential (red) thrust handle for this. In one direction, it will tighten your orbit, speeding you up. In the other direction, it will widen your orbit, slowing you down.
Level1Tutorial45	Drag the red handle in either direction to see how it affects your orbit.
Level1Tutorial46	Every time you change your orbit, mouse over your trajectory to see how close you get to your destination. If you are still ahead after one orbit, widen it. If you are behind after one orbit, tighten it. Tweak it until you get a green join icon, and then select it to join.
Level1Tutorial47	Excellent! The diamond around the green join icon indicates that your ships have a confirmed join. Run the turn until they join.
Level1Tutorial48	Now that the Cargo Freighter and the Methane Tanker are in the same fleet, select the new fleet.
Level1Tutorial49	Inspect it now.
Level1Tutorial50	In the same way as you fueled up the Methane Tanker, fuel up the Cargo Freighter.
Level1Tutorial51	Also, split out the Freighter. No reason to have the Methane Tanker tagging along with us at this point.
Level1Tutorial52	Return to orbital view.
Level1Tutorial53	Note the delta-v of the Freighter now. It should have enough to make it back to the original Methane Depot.
Level1Tutorial54	Let's start a new trajectory to return back to the depot. Make sure the fleet is selected first.
Level1Tutorial55	Rather than execute a similar set of maneuvers, let's do things a little bit differently this time. There are a nearly infinite number of ways to rendezvous with a target spacecraft in orbit.
Level1Tutorial56	This time, we'll be using a different frame of reference. Change it with this dropdown.
Level1Tutorial57	Switch the frame of reference to the Methane Depot.
Level1Tutorial58	Your trajectory looks very different, no longer a simple elliptical orbit anymore. It hasn't really changed, you're simply viewing it in reference to the destination now.
Level1Tutorial59	Mouse over the trajectory. Everything moves except for the current frame of reference, the Methane Depot. This makes it easy to rendezvous with your destination, because it never moves as time passes.
Level1Tutorial60	When you're ready, select a point on the trajectory. Remember, closer to the start on the trajectory is nearer in time.
Level1Tutorial61	Observe how your trajectory changes when you select and move the tangential (red) thrust handle.
Level1Tutorial62	From this frame of reference, the path changes in a very different manner based on the sort of burns you execute. The actual burns are the same, but the perspective is different. Try seeing how the path changes when you use the perpendicular (green) thrust handle.
Level1Tutorial63	Using both the red and green thrust handles together (remember that blue is out-of-plane, which we don't need), try to make the trajectory come close enough to the Methane Depot that a green join icon appears. When you get it, select that icon to join.
Level1Tutorial64	Once you have a successful plot, return to the default frame of reference.
Level1Tutorial65	Set Luna as the current frame of reference.
Level1Tutorial66	In Luna's Frame of Reference, the orbit looks much more like a standard elliptical orbit. Go ahead and run the turn until the fleets join up.
Level1Failure	Unfortunately, you have failed this mission. No worries, restart the mission, and we'll give it another go.
Level1Success	Mission Accomplished! You've got a firm enough grasp of orbital spaceflight to start doing serious missions now!

Level False Flag	False Flag
Level False Flag Description
	First of all, let me congratulate you on getting through your first mission. Just in time, too, because we've got our first combat mission for you. Don't be concerned, the firepower that we will provide you with vastly outmatches the enemy's, and your tactical officer will similarly provide help from time to time.
	A few days ago, a small combat vessel belonging to the United Sol Trade Alliance allegedly went rogue around Ganymede and attacked one of our cargo freighters. The USTA have disavowed any support for such an act, but the rest of us at the republic high command disbelieve such a claim. In all likelihood, this is yet another provocation ordered directly from the USTA headquarters itself. We're going to be spinning this story as firmly placing the blame on the USTA.
	But that's our concern. Your only concern is to eliminate this rogue craft. Ganymede is jointly controlled by us, the USTA, and nearly every other faction in the entire solar system. We have a warship in orbit around Ganymede as well. Take it and tear the enemy craft to pieces. Its weapons vastly outrange the enemy's weapons, so a combat encounter should be a foregone conclusion. Simply make the orbital intercept to enter combat with the enemy ship, and your crew should handle the rest.
	Your opponent for this mission is one USF Captain Jake Charron, a USF captain with a known history of poorly made decisions and rash aggression. He is best known for playing a minor role in the USTA's takeover of Enceladus as the designated civilian-craft disabler.
Level False Flag ShortDescription	Intercept and destroy an enemy spacecraft around Ganymede using overwhelming firepower.

Level2Tutorial1	Hello, Admiral. Don't worry about combat for now, just intercept your enemy. When you do enter combat, the tactical officer will give you a run down of your options.
Level2Tutorial2	A note on this mission. The enemy's orbit is elliptical rather than circular. As a result, if you do try to orbit phase like last mission, it will only work properly at the periapsis of their orbit.
Level2Tutorial3	One more concern. Jupiter will perturb your orbits heavily, meaning you won't have perfect ellipses for orbits. This may further confound your orbit phasing.
Level2Tutorial4	Welcome to combat! Combat begins paused though you can disable this in the options.
Level2Tutorial5	First of all, this is your range finder. The white circles tell you the range to the enemy. In the center of it, it tells you the relative velocity to the enemy, and in what direction.
Level2Tutorial6	Up here, you can see how long it will take until your ship will fly by the enemy (assuming no one speeds up or slows down).
Level2Tutorial7	The red diamond at the top is the enemy, and the green diamond at the bottom is your spacecraft. Select your spacecraft.
Level2Tutorial8	The arc lines indicate the ranges of your weapons. The arc is blue if it is out of range, and orange if it is in range.
Level2Tutorial9	All of your weapons auto-fire by default, though most are on the sides of your ship, so they need to be swung around to fire. Get into range, swing your ship into a broadside, and your guns will start blasting.
Level2Tutorial10	You can give your ship orders with this button.
Level2Tutorial11	Homing tells your ship to chase the enemy ships at top speed. Select this order now.
Level2Tutorial12	Now select the enemy ship.
Level2Tutorial13	Now that the enemy is selected, in the range finder, you can see the enemy's weapon ranges against your own ship.
Level2Tutorial14	You can target the enemy's systems here. Targeting too many systems at once will defocus your fire, so go with a single target. What you target is the most important tactical decision you can make in combat!
Level2Tutorial15	Target exactly one of their systems now.
Level2Tutorial16	That's all. You can toggle pause and unpause with [SPACE]. Good luck!
Level2Tutorial17	Your ship's weapons are in range! Select your craft now.
Level2Tutorial18	Your railgun's arc line is orange rather than blue, indicating that it is in range.
Level2Tutorial19	Your railguns are on the sides of your ship, so they can't aim at the enemy until you swing your ship around. Open up the orders popup to do so.
Level2Tutorial20	Give your ship a broadside order to swing your ship about.
Level2Tutorial21	Once your guns are in range and in arc, they will fire automatically. It may take a while before the projectiles hit, because the enemy is tens of kilometers away. Unpause when ready with [SPACE].
Level2Tutorial22	The enemy is suffering damage! Select the enemy craft and we can watch it happen.
Level2Tutorial23	As the enemy takes damage, watching them is a good way to see if your attacks are effective. If not, you'll want to target different systems.
Level2Tutorial24	Your ship is taking hits! Select it now.
Level2Tutorial25	If the enemy's laser is hitting you, you won't be seeing it because lasers are invisible in space. The effects of it will become apparent visually as it carves through our hull, however.
Level2Tutorial26	We're taking serious damage! Select your ship.
Level2Tutorial27	Note that we've lost a module, likely due to the enemy laser's precise cutting. If you lost a gun, you may want to swing around with a Reorient order to allow the guns on the other side of your ship to start firing.
Level2Tutorial28	We took out an enemy module! Let's select their craft.
Level2Tutorial29	You can find the modules you've destroyed or disabled in this section, both next to each module, and at the very bottom.
Level2Failure	You have failed to eliminate the rogue craft in time.
Level2Success	Good work! That captain will no longer be an issue for anyone anymore.

Level Predatory Opportunism	Predatory Opportunism
Level Predatory Opportunism Description
	Given your performance last mission, we at high command think you're ready for your first dangerous encounter. Just in time, too.
	After you wrecked the USTA's 'rogue' spacecraft around Ganymede, we just saw a spike in aggressive USTA activity, especially around the belt. In particular, they had a warship patrolling the belt when they received word of us destroying their 'rogue' spacecraft. Shortly thereafter, they diverted that spacecraft to Mercury. Jointly controlled by us and another faction, Mercury is rather important for our tactical operations.
	Ordinarily, we'd send numerous threats and warnings for the USTA to not violate our orbital space, perhaps hitting them with trade sanctions, but actually making good on those threats wouldn't be worth it to us.
	Here's the issue, however. With tensions rising over property rights with the United Sol Trade Alliance these last few years, and with their aggression at Ganymede, we've starting to do a lot of things we might not normally do. In particular, we've threatened destruction of their ship if they violate our orbital space, which they have, so we're going to make good on our promise. You're going to destroy their ship.
	Mercury is jointly controlled by our faction and the Iroquois Resurgence, a faction with a pretty shaky history with the USTA, and we at high command were all too happy to take advantage of that fact. We've cut a deal with the faction, and they agreed to close down all spaceports of Mercury in exchange for allowing them limited use of our solar-wide propellant depot infrastructure.
	Right now, the enemy warship is orbiting around Mercury, unable to dock or land to refuel, making it a sitting duck, perfect for us to tear apart. We have a small carrier in orbit around Mercury which you will use to you convert the USTA ship into scrap metal.
	Ignore their warnings of retaliation, any attempts to surrender, and their protests of Mercury orbital space being a neutral zone. Their ship is quite powerful, especially at gun range, and the opportunity to annihilate while it is low on delta-v far outweighs the consequences. On that note, I'd recommend you keep your capital ship out of combat range, because the coilgun they have mounted on that ship both outranges your capital ship's weapons, and is extremely powerful. The ship itself is commanded by USF Captain Aleksandr Zhou, a captain with no live combat experience. Regardless of his history, do not expect him to hold back once you enter range.
	You'll need to be quick about destroying their ship, however. The USTA has reinforcements en route from the asteroid belt, and we estimate that we have about 15 days before we have to call off the attack, lest we be forced to engage with a stronger enemy force with actual delta-v.
Level Predatory Opportunism ShortDescription	Destroy a dangerous enemy ship that is in an out of plane orbit around Mercury.

Level3Tutorial1	For this mission, Admiral, I recommend launching drones to take out your enemy. Drones are much smaller than your capital ships, and so can get much closer to the enemy before the enemy can target them effectively.
Level3Tutorial2	Let's open up your fleet now and I'll show you how to launch them.
Level3Tutorial3	Inspect your fleet. Remember that this button has a hotkey [F] like many other buttons. You can find the hotkey in the tooltip of each button, if applicable.
Level3Tutorial4	You can launch drones using the buttons in this panel, in small to large groups. By default, they will split out into a separate fleet. However, you can change this with the circular toggle buttons.
Level3Tutorial5	Something to note, however. Your drones have somewhat less delta-v than your capital ship. You may want to get your main ship closer to the enemy before launching drones. For instance, if you enter into the enemy orbital plane and then launch drones, your drones won't have to spend the delta-v for that out-of-plane maneuver.
Level3Tutorial6	Feel free to experiment to find the solution that works best for you.
Level3Tutorial7	One last point about drones. Canceling their initial order can be valuable for saving delta-v when not in range, since they burn through their delta-v a lot in combat. Good luck!
Level3Failure	The offensive was unsuccessful. Keep your capital ship out of range of the enemy until you can disable their coilguns.
Level3Success	Excellent! This undeclared war is starting on a very good note, indeed, Admiral. Now let's get back to port before enemy reinforcements arrive.

Level A Small Diversion	A Small Diversion
Level A Small Diversion Description
	Our propaganda machine is already spinning the exchange with the USTA as a positive, and the majority of the solar system appears to believe that the USTA fired first. As expected, given the Falklands Precedent set centuries ago, the USTA have not officially declared war, and so neither will we. Regardless, we expect retribution over the coming months, and we are preparing for all out undeclared war.
	On your end, we have a new task ready for you. Since the first major exchange between two major factions in modern history has just taken place, we're diverting any of our crafts away from any celestial bodies with a major USTA presence. We had a research craft, under the command of Captain Mendoza, en route to Ida, but the USTA practically owns everything on that rock, and everything in orbit around it, too. Thus, we had to divert the science vessel to Pallas, and the spacecraft ended up being extremely short on delta-v after injecting.
	Pallas is actually devoid of allied crafts currently, and the Nippon Prime faction controlling most of Pallas is refusing our demands to refuel it. We suspect the USTA has had a hand in influencing Nippon Prime's decision, via money or military threats, to refuse to help us.
	Your mission is to try to finish up the rendezvous with the scant delta-v left in our craft's tanks. It'll be tight, but we're sure it's doable, and it should really help you hone your orbital maneuvering skills. You have fifteen days before their provisions run out.
Level A Small Diversion ShortDescription	Rendezvous a research craft with a space station on a low delta-v budget around Pallas.

Level4Tutorial1	For this mission, you will find very quickly that maneuvers will take up all your remaining delta-v. Matching orbits and joining with the target craft will cost significant amounts of delta-v and time. It always costs this, but this mission is the first time where you don't have enough delta-v to ignore this cost.
Level4Tutorial2	To minimize the amount of delta-v used for these maneuvers, try to enter into them at a similar velocity. This is best done by entering at as shallow of an angle as possible. For instance, when matching an orbit, hitting the orbit head on is sure to be expensive, while barely brushing by it is far cheaper to match.
Level4Tutorial3	One more note on these maneuvers. You do not have to exactly select the orbit icon to excute a match orbit. Anywhere nearby that icon on the trajectory can also allow you to match the orbit, and varying distance away from the icon can affect delta-v and time cost. The same goes for all such similar maneuvers.
Level4Failure	We're on our last legs. Thank you for trying to help, but it's all over for me and my crew.
Level4Success	Thank you! The crew was starting to get concerned we'd be left floating forever around Pallas, orbiting a tiny rock in the vast nothing of space. Next time we're in a allied spaceport, drinks are on me.

Level Orbital Fallout	Orbital Fallout
Level Orbital Fallout Description
	While you were busy finishing up diverting our crafts from USTA space ports, it seems like the USTA had the opposite idea. A USTA warship, taking a long journey from Jupiter has entered orbit around our asteroid Eros, a blatant provocation.
	Despite the fact that Eros is just a little asteroid in the belt, and holds only a tiny population compared to most of the other belt rocks, we have valuable assets there.
	For one, we've been stockpiling weaponry, and slowly but surely building warships on almost all of our celestial bodies, belt or otherwise. In particular, at the Erotian shipyard, we've been building a prototype Siloship, a medium sized capital ship devoted towards carrying an enormous payload of nuclear weapons. If there is anything we learned from the cataclysm, it's that there exists no problem which can't be solved by judiciously applying nuclear ordnance.
	Naturally, we're not keen on letting that prototype warship fall into enemy hands, but the nearest warship we have, a corvette around Massalia, is months away. The only thing we can do is activate the mostly-finished prototype and defend ourselves. It's propellant tanks are not filled, and it's only partially stocked with ammo and nuclear missiles, but it should do.
	The USTA's ship itself appears to be a nuclear enabled missile schooner, captained by USF Captain Albert Gaertner, who we have no records on. We've given him multiple warnings, but he has ignored all our hails. We suspect that the USTA has received intel about what was being built at Eros, and that is exactly why they sent Captain Gaertner there, so we're not going to hesitate to eliminate him. Don't expect him to hesitate to engage either.
	For this mission, you should have no qualms about conserving delta-v, and instead burn your missiles in a trajectory directly at the enemy. The faster your missiles intercept the enemy, the less time the enemy has to react with point defense weapons.
	Just destroy the Captain Gaertner's ship, and ensure both our Siloship and our shipyard remain functioning. Our propaganda machine will deal with the political fallout of a nuclear exchange, so do not be afraid to turn Captain Gaertner into radioactive ash.
Level Orbital Fallout ShortDescription	Defend both a space station and a spacecraft, and destroy an aggressive enemy craft.

Level5Tutorial1	Whenever you have an enemy that is poised to go on the offensive, you may want to run the turn first to see what they do.
Level5Tutorial2	Looks like they're keen on taking you out immediately. When their missile fleet intercepts you, we can deal with them in combat.
Level5Tutorial3	If enemy missiles are incoming, you should launch decoy flares to throw them off!
Level5Tutorial4	Your decoy flares should be effective so long as the flares' emitted power is greater than your spacecraft's heat signature, which they currently are. You should launch more when the missiles get closer.
Level5Failure	Our strategic assets around Eros have been damaged beyond repair.
Level5Success	Close call there, Admiral. Our shipyard workers are safe, and our prototype has survived. Good work.

Level Lagrange Point Graveyard	Lagrange Point Graveyard
Level Lagrange Point Graveyard Description
	Well, it looks like the USTA fleet en route to Davida may have just been a feint after all. It diverted from Vesta to our second major stronghold in the belt, Ceres. We had been shipping off many of our warships from Ceres to Vesta when they made their invasion burn to Ceres. We only had a month to react, far too little time to execute a turnaround of those ships, and far too little time to muster any forces from any of our other rocks in the belt, from Vesta, or anywhere else.
	The United Sol Trade Alliance war fleet wiped out our remaining defense fleet around Ceres except our flagship. When the battle went badly, the rest of the fleet was sacrificed to cover the escape of the flagship, which fled Ceres into a solar freefall. It afterwards used the last of it's delta-v to capture into a tadpole orbit around the Mercury-Sun Lagrange Point 4.
	The flagship holds one of our most esteemed military leaders, Admiral Yanti Sutedja, commander of the Ceres defense fleet, and the crew has somewhat over three months of food left, as they were not planning for such a situation. We have a Methane Tanker in orbit around Mercury. Rendezvous it with the disabled ship and rescue the crew before they run out of food. We'll send more ships later to recover the flagship, when they can finally arrive at Mercury, but for your mission, you just need to rendezvous with the flagship before one of our top brass starves to death.
Level Lagrange Point Graveyard ShortDescription	Rendezvous a rescue craft to a disabled ship in Mercury's 4th Lagrange Point before it runs out of food.

Level6Tutorial1	In case you haven't discovered it already, you can toggle on and off the visibility of Lagrange Points. You may find it useful for this mission.
Level6Tutorial2	All five of the Mercury-Sun Lagrange Points have shown up. However, the only one you should worry about is the L_4 point, which is what the target ship is orbiting right now. Find it now.
Level6Tutorial3	This is the point that your target is orbiting in a tadpole orbit. When you get closer, you may want to use it as your frame of reference.
Level6Tutorial4	You're going to need to escape Mercury's gravity, and fall into orbit around the sun to get to the Mercury-Sol L_4 Point. Because L_4 is in front of Mercury along Mercury's orbit, you'll want a tighter orbit to catch up.
Level6Tutorial5	You should select a point on your trajectory nearest to Sol. This is because your ship will be going in the opposite direction of Mercury around Sol there. On the other side of Mercury, you'd have to essentially make a retrograde burn to escape Mercury's orbit.
Level6Tutorial6	If you have the correct point, escaping via a tangential burn is vastly more delta-v efficient than via a radial burn. You should need much less than 1 km/s to escape Mercury's orbit this way.
Level6Tutorial7	Your trajectory will achieve escape from Mercury's orbit if the line curves away from Mercury rather than remaining in an ellipse. Once you have that, you'll want to change your frame of reference next.
Level6Tutorial8	Assuming your trajectory escapes Mercurial orbit, having Mercury as a frame of reference makes no sense. Switch to Sol as your reference frame.
Level6Tutorial9	Now zoom out as far as you can. If you've successfully made an escape trajectory from Mercury, your orbit should now appear to be a circle or ellipse around Sol, indicating that your ship will be orbiting Sol, rather than Mercury.
Level6Tutorial10	You should be able to figure out the rest of the intercept on your own at this point. Good luck!
Level6Failure	Looks like you're not going to make it in time. What a shame. I'm sending over a vid of each of the crew's final words. Please make sure their families receive them.
Level6Success	Just in time, Admiral. Thanks for the rescue.

Level The Interamnian Incident	The Interamnian Incident
Level The Interamnian Incident Description
	Well, this is most unfortunate. One of our warships in orbit around Interamnia has mutinied, imprisoned the captain, and seized control of the ship. We assure you, it's an isolated incident, and not endemic to our entire military or anything like that.
	The first officer, Commander Rahimi, has made a number of demands which you need not bother yourself with. These demands, however, makes him firmly an enemy of the state, guilty of high treason, to be executed without trial, as per the laws of our republic. Ordinarily, we would recommend you take the nearest allied ship, a gunship, and nuke Rahimi's ship into hot plasma, no questions asked, but there's a bit of a wrinkle.
	The skipper of this ship is Captain Shinta Chandra, daughter of Senator Chandra, the most powerful senator in the parliament of Mars, if not the entirety of this republic. Nuking his daughter out of existence would be a disaster, especially since his ties with the rare metals mining industry are key to supplying our entire war effort.
	With that in mind, we need to instead tread this issue with delicacy. We still intend to make Rahimi disappear, so the plan is to close in and disable the enemy spacecraft. Knock out their weapons and engines, so we can approach with a boarding party and CQC the ship. For taking out their weapons, you can either destroy their weapons directly, or you can simply shoot out their powerplant. And for the engines, you can go for the engines or all of their propellant tanks, just so long as the ship has zero delta-v at the end.
	And I must stress to you that the crew compartments of this ship are not to be destroyed. If Captain Chandra is killed in the crossfire, we'll try to spin a story blaming the USTA or anyone else, but I don't think the senator is going to buy it. If he discovers the truth, I doubt even your mother will be able to save you, president or not. Probably won't reflect too well on her political career either.
Level The Interamnian Incident ShortDescription	Disable an enemy ship around Interamnia that has mutinied, but do not destroy it.

Level7Tutorial1	In order to precisely disable the enemy's ship, Admiral, I'd recommend doing two things: disable any of our own weapons that will do too much damage, and target specific modules on the enemy.
Level7Tutorial2	We can target specific modules of the enemy ship when we inspect their fleet.
Level7Tutorial3	Remember that we can prioritize what modules we target here. If we don't, our guns will just shoot at everything on their ship, which is not a good idea when we're trying to surgically disable the enemy's craft.
Level7Tutorial4	A very important note here. I would target only a single set of modules at a time! This craft is frail against to our guns, and barraging multiple systems at the same time is an easy way to destroy the entire ship, which would fail the mission.
Level7Tutorial5	When you're done with choosing a single module target, let's go back.
Level7Tutorial6	Let's check out our own ship now.
Level7Tutorial7	Inspect it.
Level7Tutorial8	You have a missile launcher, a laser, and several different coilguns and railguns. You're going to want to disable the ones that are too powerful or too inaccurate to precisely disarm the enemy.
Level7Tutorial9	Also, remember that missiles are homing, which means they go after heat sources, and are unaffected by your target prioritizing. I would recommend disabling the launchers for this mission as a result, otherwise they will auto-launch at close ranges.
Level7Tutorial10	In order to determine what weapon is neither too powerful nor too weak, as well as accurate enough for this mission, here's what I would recommend. Try disabling all weapons except for one of them, and seeing how effective it is against the enemy, and cycle through your weapons in this way.
Level7Tutorial11	One final word. Combat begins at the longest range of all weapons of all ships. Thus, if we disable the longer range weapons, combat will start much closer. At close range, all projectile weapons will be much more accurate, because mass weapons fired at the very edge of their range are at their worst accuracy. Good luck!
Level7Taunt	You're in command? Aren't you the president's kid? Listen to me, stop your attack. This doesn't have to end in violence. You of all people should understand my reasons for doing what I did. Stop the attack, and just hear me out. The republic high command is lying to you, and --- <TRANSMISSION JAMMED>
Level7Failure	You destroyed the crew modules! The Captain is dead! You're military career is likely going to be over when Senator Chandra finds out the truth.
Level7Success1	I'm ordering the crew to stand down. We surrender. Once again, you've proved exactly what kind of people run this republic.
Level7Success2	Good work, Admiral. We'll begin prepping the boarding parties now.

Level Force Projection	Force Projection
Level Force Projection Description
	Just a follow up to the previous mission. You did an excellent job handling that situation, and both Senator Chandra and Captain Chandra have passed along their thanks to you. And in case you had any doubts about what you did, we've just discovered Commander Rahimi has been receiving funding from an anonymous source linked to the USTA. On top of that, we've uncovered numerous more counts of corruption, bribery, and sexual assault all linked to that man, so rest assured, he was a bad person, and you did the right thing in eliminating him.
	That aside, your next mission is refocused around the USTA's impending military maneuvers. They actually have the gall to enter a small military fleet into high orbit around Mars, and it's been idling in that orbit, making no aggressive moves at all. With Mars as our HQ, we have more than enough firepower to wipe out that fleet, but high command is a little nervous that they could have the confidence to enter orbit around the hornet's nest.
	It could be simple force projection to keep us cautious and deterred, or perhaps it's a feint, a trick to draw out our primary Martian defense force, most of which is hidden underground in concealed bunkers, or it could be a gather intel on us from close range. Or maybe it is all of the above.
	Regardless, no one in high command likes it, and you can be assured that the people of Mars are not happy about this news either. We need to get rid of these ships, but we'd like to do it with as little firepower as possible, so as not to reveal our forces, and just in case they have some trick up their sleeves. With that in mind, you'll be commanding a carrier to dispatch the enemy fleet.
	Intel suggests that the enemy commander is Commodore Tatiana Vanhanen, a well-documented military leader with moderate combat experience during the Enceladus purges alongside the captain you killed back at Ganymede, Captain Charron. Her record appears to primarily defensively oriented, and her combat style quite conservative. In keeping with her signature combat style, she has placed her ship in a out-of-plane retrograde orbit which forces her opponents (in this case, you) to expend as much delta-v as possible to intercept her.
	The mission will be completed when Commodore Vanhanen's forces are completely destroyed.
Level Force Projection ShortDescription	Destroy an enemy fleet in a out-of-plane, retrograde orbit around Mars.

Level8Tutorial1	You may find the combat in this mission to be particularly tough. First, inspect the enemy fleet to see what we're up against.
Level8Tutorial2	The enemy fleet consists of a single Laser Frigate. The range of lasers doesn't change based on the size of the target, unlike the projectile weapons you're used to. This means the small size of your drones is no longer an advantage against the Laser Frigate.
Level8Tutorial3	Until you take out their laser, any drones you send at the enemy will likely be annihilated long before you can get into range.
Level8Tutorial4	Remember to target the enemy's modules. That's all for them. Go back and inspect your own fleet now.
Level8Tutorial5	This is your first combat where you have multiple ships in your fleet. Open your fleet and examine your Skirmisher first.
Level8Tutorial6	Your Skirmisher has, aside from projectile weapons, nuclear missiles for blasting the enemy. You'll want to use them in huge salvos against the enemy's laser. If you launch too few at a time, the laser will be able to pick them off one by one before they can hit.
Level8Tutorial7	Let's examine your carrier now.
Level8Tutorial8	Aside from projectile weapons, your carrier has drones it can launch. The drones will be very powerful once the enemy's laser is taken out. Just remember to carefully manage their delta-v!
Level8Tutorial9	Essentially, your three tactical options are missiles, drones, and your capital ships. Let's go back.
Level8Tutorial10	One last note about this situation. Note the arrow on the enemy's orbit indicating the direction it is going in.
Level8Tutorial11	Notice that the arrow on your own orbit is going in the opposite direction, so the enemy is in a retrograde orbit. If you match up orbits, you'll be running headfirst into the enemy at extremely fast speeds twice per full orbit.
Level8Tutorial12	You'll want to get into a prograde orbit with the enemy so your combats are much slower. The easiest way to do this is reverse your orbit around mars with the tangential (red) thrust handle.
Level8Tutorial13	Finally, if you do in fact, want to make a retrograde intercept, the red auto-intercept will perform poorly. You'll want to use the orange auto-flyby control.
Level8Taunt	May the best commander win, Republic Admiral.
Level8Failure	Better luck next time, Republic Admiral.
Level8Success	You've handled this situation quite well. Cdre. Vanhanen is just a memory now. Good work, Admiral.

Level Uranian Cargo Run	Uranian Cargo Run
Level Uranian Cargo Run Description
	The USTA is moving slowly and reacting even slower to our actions. Thus far, the only major battle of the war has been at Ceres, which they have won, and it looks like they're content to take a cautious approach to this conflict. We're going to be counterattacking Ceres soon, but we need you to do something for us first.
	Our incoming invasion force needs more Uranium fuel for their reactors and engines, and more Plutonium for their nukes. Miranda, a moon jointly controlled by us and Nippon Prime, is one of biggest suppliers of fissiles for the war effort. Relations with Nippon Prime have been shaky lately, since although they have tried to remain neutral to our war with the USTA, they share much closer trade ties with the USTA.
	With that in mind, we need you to rush a delivery of fissiles from Miranda to the outermost major moon of Uranus, Titania, in case Nippon Prime gets a foolish idea. Not only that, we need these fissiles to reach our Ceres task force, so Titania will be the last fueling stop before the shipment leaves the Uranian system. Just get that Cargo Freighter from Miranda to Titania within 20 days and everything should work out great.
Level Uranian Cargo Run ShortDescription	Make an interlunar transfer with a freighter from Miranda to Titania in the Uranus system, and join the freighter with a cargo station around Titania.

Level9Success	My stationworkers have already begun refueling the Cargo Freighter, and optimizing the mass for the trip to restock the Ceres task force, Admiral. Excellent work.

Level Retaking Ceres	Retaking Ceres
Level Retaking Ceres Description
	It's time for your first major head-to-head combat. We're finally taking Ceres back.
	The enemy outnumbers our invasion task force significantly, but we will have to make do with what we got. With the enemy presence around nearly every belt rock, we can't spare any additional ships from Mars or Vesta. Our incoming fleet is fully stocked with the fissiles from last mission, and although the odds are not good, we are confident you will be able to destroy the enemy and retake Ceres. You have at your disposal a small fleet.
	You'll be entering Cererian orbit and control will be passed to you as soon as the invasion propellant stages are discarded. You have one month to take back Ceres by destroying all enemy ships in orbit around it.
	Once Ceres is retaken, control of the belt will be predominantly ours again, and we can start thinking about bigger targets, like maybe encroaching upon enemy space rather than always fighting reactively.
	Your opponent for this mission is the infamous Rear Admiral Pavel Sullivan of the United Space Force, nephew of the United Sol Trade Alliance Prime Minister. Historically, he has fought somewhat aggressively, but at the same time, always has preferred to keep an eye on delta-v. His last battle was his victory over our very own Admiral Sutedja when he took control of Ceres. We believe he is at a disadvantage for this combat because he is unused to defensive warfare, preferring to be commanding the invading force, so you may be able to exploit this quality about him. 
	Best of luck, make our people proud!
Level Retaking Ceres ShortDescription	Destroy a large enemy fleet around Ceres using a smaller fleet.

Level10StartTaunt	You're vastly outnumbered, Admiral. If you offer to surrender, I will accept it.
Level10CombatTaunt	Last chance to surrender, Admiral. Don't say I didn't warn you.
Level10Failure	What a waste. You should have taken up my offer, Admiral.
Level10Success	Ceres is ours! We now control the lifeblood of the belt again. It's time we started the turning the war on to the offensive.

Level Homecoming	Homecoming
Level Homecoming Description
	You did an excellent job on Ceres, Admiral. However, before we can start waging an offensive war finally, something else has come up while you were busy taking back Ceres.
	Recall Captain Shinta Chandra, the captain you rescued when the crew had mutinied. Since her ship was knocked out of commission, and most of her crew executed for treason, she has been without a command since the mutiny and subsequent rescue. We had shipped her back to Themis, one of our asteroids in the belt, while we mulled over a new ship for her to command. However, while you were retaking Ceres, the USTA has started launching small offensives towards several belt rocks, including Themis.
	There is an incoming USTA fleet headed for Themis, and we have no such defenses there or near enough to intercept the USTA fleet. The shipyards are mostly run by the Liberty Exchange faction, and they have been denying our warships port in an effort to stay neutral in this war.
	Thus, you need to take a civilan ship and evacuate Captain Chandra from Themis, and take her back home to Mars. Your final destination is a neutral Liberty Exchange space station orbiting Mars, at which point, she can take a shuttle down to the surface. You will be taking off from a Liberty Exchange shipyard at Themis. They are offering a huge variety of ships for you to choose from, given the budget that we have been able to provide to fund this mission.
	Her father, Senator Chandra, has specifically requested she be left in command of a Martian defensive fleet since the war has turned so deadly. We have the ships stocked with provisions for two years. Bring her home to Mars within that timeframe.
Level Homecoming ShortDescription	Evacuate a VIP from Themis and deliver her to a station around Mars.

Level11Start	Admiral, I never did get to thank you for rescuing me from that mutiny, so thank you. And although I'm not keen on being relegated to a defensive command, I understand that it's out of your control. But thank you for getting me out of harm's way for now.
Level11Failure	We've lost contact with the transport. You have failed.
Level11Success	Thank you for bringing my daughter home, Admiral! Your mother can expect my unconditional political support when elections come up next year.

Level Main Belt Extraction	Main Belt Extraction
Level Main Belt Extraction Description
	While you were busy getting Captain Chandra back to Mars, an interesting development has arisen.
	A USTA warship has entered orbit around Sylvia, a main belt rock under our control. The flagship is at a standoff with our forces, and is waiting for USTA reinforcements before it engages us.
	During the standoff, we received a privately broadcast message from it.
	The message appears to be from a USF Lieutenant Commander Nathan Xiping, a high ranking officer aboard this flagship. He seems to be interested in defecting, and has offered to provide valuable intelligence if we can capture him alive.
	Ordinarily, we wouldn't dare strike this powerful flagship. However, this Lt. Cmdr. Xiping is too valuable of an asset to ignore, and we at high command are quite eager to hear what sort of intel he holds. Being on a flagship in the main belt would make him quite privy to much of the USTA's battle plan.
	Your job is to take whatever ships that Sylvia can procure for you and disable the enemy craft. Destroy the flagship's engines or propellant tanks so that it can't flee the system, and then destroy it's weapons or powerplant, so we can board and storm the craft.
	You have less than a day to do this task, as once the enemy reinforcements enter the system, we will likely be out of luck, and this opportunity will slip from our hands.
Level Main Belt Extraction ShortDescription	Disable an enemy spacecraft around Sylvia using weaker forces, but do not destroy the ship.

Level12Start	[ENCRYPTED TRANSMISSION] My comms engineer appears to have discovered my initial transmission, and is attempted to crack my encryption right now. If they discover that I am defecting, they will likely execute me immediately. Please hurry. [END ENCRYPTION]
Level12Failure	It doesn't look like we'll be able to get Lt. Cmdr. Xiping's intel now. The mission is a failure.
Level12Success	[ENCRYPTED TRANSMISSION] Thank you! The comms engineer almost found me out! Tell your shock troopers that I will be hiding in the main supply closet when they storm the crew module. [END ENCRYPTION]

Level Vesta Overkill	Vesta Overkill
Level Vesta Overkill Description
	The valuable intel provided by USF Cmdr. Xiping indicates that the USTA has been planning a major invasion of Vesta for some time now. Since he was captured, they have appeared to accelerate their plans, and have disembarked their invasion force from Saturn. Another unpleasant piece of intel Xiping has revealed to us is that they have already stolen the plans for our Siloship and have reproduced one of their own. It is on its way with the rest of their invasion force.
	With the firepower and nukes they have packed, it's unlikely that they're here for anything other than complete eradication of our Vestan defense force.
	Along with Ceres, Vesta is our other greatest claim in the belt. Its strategic value is second only to our factories on Mars and Luna. We can't lose Vesta, so we have mustered everything in the area to defend it.
	The enemy fleet is being led by the second in command of the entire USTA space military, USF Admiral Celestina "Overkill" Voitenko, known for her unrelentingly aggressive tactics and an inability to comprehend restraint or caution. Expect her to try to destroy you as fast as possible with as much firepower as she can muster.
	Additionally, we have detected the existence of a Nippon Prime manufactured Cutter spacecraft in their ranks.
	Your mission is survive her onslaught, and then wipe out the rest of her fleet. Be quick about it, because Voitenko is not the type to hesitate to nuke our cities down to the bedrock if she decides it's not worth her time to chase your ships around.
Level Vesta Overkill ShortDescription	Defend against an enemy onslaught around Vesta, and then destroy all remaining enemies.

Level13StartTaunt	The Republic President's whelp is my opponent? This will be fun.
Level13CombatTaunt	Got a present for you.
Level13Failure	Too easy. I've fought cargo ships that put up more of a fight.
Level13Success	Nicely done! The United Sol Trade Alliance's primary belt invasion fleet has been destroyed, leaving us the primary owners of the belt.

Level On the Surface of Giants	On the Surface of Giants
Level On the Surface of Giants Description
	Once again, congratulations are in order for defeating Admiral Voitenko's onslaught. Her defeat at your hands, we believe, is the turning point in this war. With Ceres and Vesta, our two primary strongholds in the belt, now firmly in our control, the USTA's presence in the belt is stretching thin, and we expect purging their remaining hold will be a foregone conclusion. Now that the asteroid belt is no longer our primary front, from this point onward, we're going to be the aggressors, and we're going to take this war to their doorstep.
	We'll start out small, and target their weakest gas giant, Neptune. We could go smaller, and go for their colonies Pluto or Eris, but those dwarf planets have virtually no influence at all in solar politics, and are of little use to us. Neptune, at least, is a very valuable asset, and a very resource rich system. A shame it's as far out as it is.
	Xiping's intel indicates that the USTA's primary military space force is centered around Triton, as expected. However, it indicates the force has an unexpected dependence on a Methane Depot that skims the Neptune atmosphere for methane. If we can destroy that Methane Depot, overseen by Lieutenant Commander Jessica Tlaloc, their defensive force will be locked to Triton, and we can land a beachhead on any of the other moons of Neptune with little fear of retaliation.
	Thanks to our politicians and their endless pockets, we have managed to broker a deal with the Iroquois Resurgence faction that controls much of Neptune's inner moons. They have agreed to let us use a tiny military force of theirs in orbit around one of Neptune's inner moons, Polyphemus, to strike and destroy that Methane Depot. You need only destroy the crew modules on the station, since with the crew dead, the station's orbit will decay into the Neptunian atmosphere, unable to stationkeep anymore.
	You don't have a lot of time, though. We estimate you will have 4 days before the USTA could react and put a stop to our sabotage. If you're successful, our invasion force from Uranus will be ready to invade.
Level On the Surface of Giants ShortDescription	Destroy an enemy space station in extremely low orbit around Neptune.

Level14CombatTaunt	Long live the USTA!
Level14Failure	You failed. We won't be able to take control of Neptune with their methane supply chain still intact.
Level14Success	Good! The Neptune system's propellant reserves are enormously crippled by your work here. When our invasion fleet injects into Nereid's orbit, the USTA won't be able to stop it.

Level Solar Ties	Solar Ties
Level Solar Ties Description
	It had to have happened sooner or later. With the USTA and the Nippon Prime faction so close, and dependent on one another for much of their commerce, it seems the Nippon Prime have finally agreed to enter into an tentative military alliance with the USTA against us. You're going to have to wait on that Neptune invasion for now.
	We believe that ultimately Nippon Prime does not want an all out war with us, but is willing to put pressure on our claims in the inner solar system to help out their trade relations with the USTA. We expect that this war with the USTA is crippling the Nippon Prime faction, driving millions of their people to poverty, or worse, as we destroy their primary trade partner for food, air, and water. Obviously, we care little about how much damage we may be doing to their economy by warring with the USTA, so we won't be trying to broker a counter-offer or any sort of diplomacy. No, we will take whatever onslaught they send at us and annihilate it.
	As such, they have launched a large fleet towards Venus from their main belt stronghold of Pallas, commanded by NSF Admiral Fujioka Aki. Although she often tends towards aggressive tactics, Venus is a unique case, as it has such a high gravitational force. Fighting so aggressively under such major gravity would be a fast way to lose all mobility, so we expect her to play this one cautiously. Consequently, there is little in terms of time limits on this one, so feel free to take as much time as you need.
	In the end, all you need to do is destroy the invasion force, and keep or claim on Venus safe and secure. And since the Venutian orbit is home to significant manufacturing space stations, you will have a very high mass and cost budget for ships to defend Venus with.
Level Solar Ties ShortDescription	Destroy a Nippon Prime fleet entering orbit around Venus.

Level15CombatTaunt	Hello.
Level15Failure	Goodbye.
Level15Success	Excellent! Venus will remain under our control, and the primary Nippon Prime invasion force is no longer a concern.

Level Dusk Over Triton	Dusk Over Triton
Level Dusk Over Triton Description
	Now that the Nippon Prime invasion has been stopped, and you've sent them back to licking their wounds, we need to refocus on taking Neptune.
	Because of your earlier work in destroying the main supply line in the Neptune system, we have been able to insert an invasion force into the Neptune system without resistance. The force has entered into orbit around Nereid, at the outer edge of the Neptune system, and is refueling and rearming there now.
	The primary USTA force is located around Triton, much further inward. You'll need to disembark from Nereid and inject into orbit around Triton, and destroy the entire USTA force there. Since you eliminated the Methane Depot around Neptune, the USTA have disembarked a reinforcements force from Saturn. We expect you'll have 3 months to execute this mission before their reinforcements arrive and put a damper on our operations.
	Our records indicate that the enemy forces are being commanded by USF Rear Admiral Jesper Pacari, an aggressive and notably unstable commander. A signature technique of his is to split his forces in two, for some reason. Most of his peers, our own tacticians included, believe this to be a bad idea, but he has managed to survive this far. He has spent much of his life in the Neptune system trading blows with the Iroquois Resurgence every time they have a territorial dispute. Much of our knowledge on this man is second hand from that faction, so take it with a grain of salt.
	Once this man and his fleet are wiped out, Triton, and by extension, the majority of Neptune, will be ours, which would make Jupiter and Saturn the only systems with significant USTA presence.
Level Dusk Over Triton ShortDescription	Transfer a fleet from Nereid to Triton to destroy the enemy force orbiting Triton.

Level16CombatTaunt	Die.
Level16Failure	Good riddance.
Level16Success	Triton has fallen! We own Neptune now! This is a huge blow to the United Sol Trade Alliance, and will forever weaken their grip on the gas giants.

Level The Jovian Lunar Tour	The Jovian Lunar Tour
Level The Jovian Lunar Tour Description
	Now that Neptune is ours, the only major presence of USTA remaining in the solar system is around Jupiter and Saturn. We're going to be purging them from Jupiter first. The situation itself has gotten rather out of control in the past few years.
	You recall Admiral Sutedja, our esteemed military commander you rescued at the Mercury-Sol Lagrange Point? While you were busy taking control of Neptune, she was assigned to the Jovian campaign. Since Ganymede, the main lifeline of Jupiter, was jointly controlled by just about every faction in Sol, the fighting turned into a major cluster as our war with the USTA (and subsequently Nippon Prime) heated up. Most of the major cities on Ganymede have been reduced to radioactive ash, and it's stopped being such a major objective. Sutedja was able to wipe out the majority of the enemy fleets in the system at the price of much of the Jovian fleet, but had to pull back to Callisto to regroup with her one remaining flagship.
	While in orbit around Callisto, Sutedja was assassinated by a traitor aboard the ship, no doubt a plot engineered by the USTA. You're going to be taking over and finishing what she started. You have about two months to finish eradicating the USTA presence from Jupiter before the USTA finishes building and launching more ships into orbit from Io and Europa. The only combat ready ship we have in the system is Sutedja's flagship.
	Not to worry, though. The enemy presence in space is limited to only a handful of smaller capital ships, and should pose little combat threat.
	The enemy fleets around Io and Europa, are being controlled by USF Commodore Ezra Dugar and USF Rear Admiral Ebele Smith respectively. Both of their combat styles appear to be defensive and somewhat cautious, as evidenced by their prior engagements with Sutedja. With the majority of their ships already destroyed by Sutedja, we expect them not to make any significantly aggressive moves.
	As a final boon, we at high command have been able to negotiate a deal with the Liberty Exchange Guild, and you will be able to use their Methane Depot at the Europa-Jupiter Lagrange Point 4. You should probably make a pit stop there, on your way to Europa and Io.
	Also, tell your mother congratulations on getting re-elected as President of the Republic.
Level The Jovian Lunar Tour ShortDescription	Take a gunship around Callisto and destroy enemy fleets around Europa and Io.

Level17Failure	You'll never take Jupiter, Republic Admiral. The people will never accept it.
Level17Success1	You may have taken control of Jupiter, but the people will never accept warmongering Republic of the so called 'Free People' as their commanders, and the resistance will live on, on the surface of its moons.
Level17Success2	Good work! Sutedja would be proud that you finished up her final campaign. Now that we control the orbits of all moons of Jupiter, any resistance fighters on the surface will be easy to nuke from orbit, if need be. All thanks to you!

Level The Fall of Titan	The Fall of Titan
Level The Fall of Titan Description
	This is it. We own the Jovian orbital space, and the Liberty Exchange, sensing our imminent victory, is supplying our ships with enough ordnance to ensure the Jovian moons are naught but a nuisance to us from now on. That means that Saturn is the last holdout of the USTA.
	They've been requesting an audience with we at high command for a while now, with an offer of their own conditional surrender, but we have no interest in that. You see, a conditional surrender would leave them with the means to rebuild and regroup and, over the course of the next few decades, recreate their original military might. They might just strike when we finally let down our guard, confident in our superiority over Sol. If we force them to accept an unconditional surrender through threat of nuking and paving their cities, we can effectively neuter their entire military and their faction in general.
	The USTA will be forced to capitulate, and we will assimilate all of their people into our own faction, all of their moons and asteroids as our own claims, and then we will be the only remaining superpower of the solar system, of all of humanity. Because once the USTA falls, our economic sanctions against Nippon Prime is sure to collapse their economy as well. Right now, they are squabbling for control over the belt, and our other Admirals are dealing with their marauding, while you will be spearheading the assault on Saturn. Since the rest of our forces are busy fortifying the belt until Nippon Prime collapses, you'll have to make do with what we can give you for invading Saturn.
	But some good news. Our allies, the Iroquois Resurgence, smelling blood in the water, and eager to take advantage of the collapsing USTA, have taken their scant forces around Saturn and struck Enceladus, taking control of that moon. They clearly intend to start pillaging and claiming the USTA moons as the faction begins to crumble, and to appease us, have offered us a safe staging point from orbit of Enceladus. You'll be launching your assault from Enceladus, as a result.
	The highest ranking USTA commander, Fleet Admiral Brian Jefferson, has realized this and fled to Titan to protect their capital Mezzoramia City. Despite the fact that their forces have concentrated in low orbit above Titan, we still dare not try to stage our invasion from any other moon than Enceladus as they most assuredly have hidden anti-space missile silos on all of their moons. USF Fleet Adm. Jefferson is known for caution and defensiveness, unlike many of his commanders, and quite the polar opposite of his former second in command that you killed back at Vesta, Adm. Voitenko. We believe he's afraid, as he rightfully should be, being the last garrison of his faction. There's a hero's welcome for you at home, should you manage to eliminate him.
	Once Jefferson is ash orbiting Titan, the USTA will collapse, the last of their space military defeated. We and the other smaller factions like the Iroquois Resurgence and Liberty Exchange will divvy up the moons of Saturn. Nippon Prime's economy is expected to implode soon after. In the end, we will be the victors. We will be the ones standing over the ashes of our opponents. Sol will be ours!
	Make us proud. Make your mother, our president, proud. Make us the greatest faction in the solar system.
Level The Fall of Titan ShortDescription	Launch a fleet from Enceladus and destroy all enemies in orbit around Titan.

Level18Start1	You're the one who killed Commander Rahimi back at Interamnia, right? You should've listened to him, he was telling the truth.
Level18Start2	Of course, with all the people you've killed so far, I don't imagine you would've cared, even if you'd had listened.
Level18Combat1	Does your mother know about all the damage you've done to this solar system? To the human race?
Level18Combat2	How does it feel to be personally responsible for setting back the human race a hundred years? Are you proud of your legacy?
Level18Failure	Your assault is staunched, but all the scars you've left on the human race will remain forever.
Level18Success1	My last wish is that one day, your mother realizes the depths of her folly in bringing you into the world.
Level18Success2	You did it! Saturn is ours! The people of this solar system will bow their necks beneath our bootheels, and we will be crowned the rulers of it!

Ending1Message
	With their core fleet destroyed, the USTA space force has collapsed.
	Our reinforcement fleets have arrived in the Saturn system and are mopping up the stragglers. A few holdouts here and there, a fleet that has the audacity to ask for surrender this late in the war, and so on. They will all be annihilated.
	We will be sweeping up the pieces, not just to ensure our superiority, but to also serve as an example to others in the future.
	Truth is, we don't merely want an unconditional surrender from the USTA. We want to watch their entire faction beg us for mercy.
	The utter capitulation of the USTA will serve as a warning to any faction who dares trifle with us in the future. History need only point to your ruthlessness to pacify any future threats.
	We already suspect the Nippon Prime faction had been considering further offensives. Hopefully, the destruction of the USTA will force them to think twice about making any reckless moves.
	Our republic owns the solar system from here on out, and we intend it to stand the test of time.

Ending2Message1
	At this point, we own all of the orbits of the USTA's moons and asteroids. Their last defense is their ground forces: soldiers, artillery, and missile silos hidden deep within their moons.
	Do not worry about them, however.
	Remember the siloship prototype you saved way back at Eros? Well, it's finally ready to fulfill its true purpose. Our siloships have entered the Saturn orbit, and they are itching to finally do their jobs.
	They have already started blasting the enemy space stations into oblivion. Afterwards, they'll be nuking the USTA holdouts down to the bedrock. The unrelenting nuclear bombardment will blot out the sun. I encourage you to stick around and watch the fireworks.
	So much of this military campaign wouldn't have been possible without you. High command is very grateful for your loyalty throughout this war. You are already being celebrated as a hero of the people throughout every city in this Republic, renowned across the solar system.
	Our propaganda outlets have made sure of it.

Ending2Message2
	Oh, and you have a message from Madam President. Piping it through now.

Ending3Message
	My dearest daughter,
	I'm so proud of you, of what you have accomplished over these years. The Republic Senate called me corrupt when I installed you as admiral within the Republic space forces, but through your success, you've made them eat their words.
	Political support for the war has been very shaky these years, but with your string of military victories, a majority in the Senate has remained dedicated to the war. Furthermore, you've solidified my support within the voter base. If this war had gone badly, I would be losing my next election.
	I was afraid at one point in time that I would be the last President of the Republic of the Free People. At the beginning of the war, the USTA was poised to strike us first and cripple our main territories in the solar system. With your help, we struck first instead, and ensured the USTA would never control us.
	I know you've had your doubts about your role in this entire war, but I want you to know, you did the right thing. We passed the point of no return a long time ago. Now that the war is winding down, the solar system will be at peace. You can let go of any regrets you've had, because we won. The enemy is vanquished. Your job is over. And my job of ruling over the new territories has just begun.
	Don't worry about what the naysayers are parroting. We will both go down in the history books as the ones who united the solar system under one banner. Between my benevolence and your ruthlessness, we'll usher in a new century of peace and prosperity.
	You're a hero, the savoir of our people, conquerer of the solar system, and best of all, you saved my presidency. My dear girl, I can't thank you enough. I'm so proud of you, and I love you.
	Best,
	Madam President





Faction Republic of the Free People	Republic of the Free People
Faction Republic of the Free People AbbreviatedName	RFP
Faction Republic of the Free People ShipPrefix	RSF
Faction Republic of the Free People Description
	The Republic of the Free People was formed after the evacuation of Earth after the Cataclysm. Although many of the former sovereign nations of Earth attempted to coherently reform off world, all of them dissolved in the chaos of the aftermath. The Republic was created by an amalgamation of various sovereign states, initially starting as a temporary coalition between said states, much like every other off world coalition. The Republic itself was formed primarily by the states of Indonesia, India, The Phillipines, and Pakistan.
	During the beginning of the Republic's formation, ideological differences between the constituent states threatened to destroy it. Such an alliance could only be held together by the Cataclysm, by the threat of extinction of the entire human race. As millions of people were evacuated from Earth during the Cataclysm, the differences eventually melted away, and the decades after would see these differences fade entirely.
	The primary population of the Republic was fed by the extremely low cost of the Indian and Pakistani skyhooks launching people into LEO (Low Earth Orbit) inside of what amounted to human sized sardine cans. Ultimately, this method of ferrying people off world was cheaper than any other technique by nearly one order of magnitude, and huge amounts of citizens all over the world flocked to Indonesia to get a chance to escape Earth.
	As the years went by, and the chaos of evacuating an entire species off of a planet subsided, the coalitions discovered that they were far more coherent as governing bodies than their constituent nation states, and that they often consisted more of people from differing nation states than of people from the original nations. As a result, the coalitions remained in place, and have, more or less, over the years, as humanity has spread from LEO and Luna to the rest of the solar system.
	The Republic itself is headquartered on Mars, and has hundreds of settlements across the asteroid belt. Other major claims include Luna, and a number of moons of Uranus. Additionally, they are the faction closest to old Earth, being the defacto "owner" of LEO. Unlike most of the other factions, the Republic has very little influence in the outer planets, where most of the other factions have settled, constantly fighting over the resource-rich moons of the four gas giants.
Faction Republic of the Free People ShipNames	#Array
	Terraborn
	Frozen Fission
	Scorched Polaris
	Earthset
	Fusion Flower
	Singularity Petal
	Aleph Wavelet
	Gamma Rarefaction
	Forever Pulse
	Stairway to Infinity
	Dipole Hourglass
	Evanescent Frequency
	Deuterium Snowflake
	De Broglie Rainbow
	Mach Wave
	Naked Singularity
	Halcyon Memory
	Fissile Wave
	Solarsong
	Magnetic Winter
	Solar Tempest
	Heliosheath
	The Unshock
	506 Kelvin
	Plasma Wake
	Planetshine
	Magnetic Star
	Electric Frost
	Townsend Avalanche
	Maxwell's Demon
	Sonic Diffractor
	Laputan Machine
	Shock Diamond
	Hedera Queen
	Fortress Echo
	Jenny Haniver
	Boson Golem
	Timelike Tacheyon
	The Never Event
	Epithermal Resonance
	Eternal Equinox
	Ultraviolet Thunder
	Ne Cede Malis
	Impending Phoenix
Faction Republic of the Free People FlagShipNames	#Array
	Gravity's Rage
	Young Obsidian
	Null Horizon
	Black Sun
	Autumn Supernova
	Termination Shock
	Hellfire Impeller
	Aye Mak Sicur

Faction United Sol Trade Alliance	United Sol Trade Alliance
Faction United Sol Trade Alliance AbbreviatedName	USTA
Faction United Sol Trade Alliance ShipPrefix	USF
Faction United Sol Trade Alliance Description
	The USTA, or United Sol Trade Alliance, is a coalition that formed during the Cataclysm. It was originally formed between the old Earth conglomerate states, the North Eurasian Socialist Republic (NESR), and the East Asian Megastate (EAM). The NESR was one of the largest superpowers in the world, having risen to power from the ashes of the USSR nearly a hundred years before it, ready to start a second Cold War with the EAM.
	For such an alliance to arise between these factions was quite surprising, given their opposing roles in bringing about the Cataclysm, leading to rampant speculation and conspiracy theories.
	The most fanciful of such theories being that the Cataclysm and the subsequent evacuation of Earth was entirely planned, as a way to force the human race out of their paradise prison, to force humanity to become stronger, more resilient, and now capable of resisting astronomical extinction.
	Another more likely possibility includes the fact that the extremely nationalistic memebers of all these factions likely died out following the Cataclysm. Most of what remained perhaps saw the terrible folly of this disaster and vowed to never let it happen again. And thus, bitter enemies bent on annihilating each other were now close allies, ready to turn a new page in human history.
	Regardless of how such an alliance could form, those nations were soon joined by many more nations eager to evacuate, and the burgeoning USTA soon become much more than its original founding nations, and soon the only identity that remained was the alliance.
	The USTA was the first faction to evacuate straight to the outer solar system. While the Republic of Free People was dumping their people on Luna, Mars, and the asteroid belt, the USTA was taking years and years to dump their people on the moons of Jupiter and Saturn, sometimes keeping refugees stuck inside their colony ships for years. Other factions soon followed their lead, rushing for the resource rich fields of ice and methane of Uranus and Neptune.
	Over the course of hundreds of years, the USTA has held an aggressive colonization and resource exploitation policy, strip mining all the asteroids and moons it can, and then dumping colonists to the furthest reaches of the solar system, as far out as Eris and Haumea. Despite their utter worthless strategic nature, the Kuiper Belt belongs completely to the USTA, as no other faction has been foolish enough to exploit such bodies. In addition, their reach extends as far inward as several orbital stations around Mercury, and enjoys an omnipresence across the entire asteroid belt.
	To this day, they remain the largest faction in the Solar System by GDP, and celestial claims.
Faction United Sol Trade Alliance ShipNames	#Array
	Screaming Silence
	The Nothing
	Hateweaver
	Ocean of Sorrow
	Cage of Ashes
	Temple of Decay
	The Unmaker
	Dream Shatterer
	Dead Sky
	Dusk Inferno
	Hope Void
	Tomorrow's Despair
	Planet Butcher
	The Gift of Loss
	Volcanic Rain
	Misery Spinneret
	Vengeance Eternal
	Cosmic Eraser
	Terra Requiem
	Solar Tomb
	Shattered Sun
	Wasted Sun
	Entropy
	The Inner Darkness
	Progress Devourerer
	Peaceeater
	Wasteland of a Type I
	Cosmic Epitaph
	Molten Tears
	Desolation River
	Plasma Rain
	Symphony of Violence
	Infinity Eclipse
	Volcanic Glory
	Soul Unraveler
	Nuclear Summer
	Faraday Prison
	Atomic Scar
	Solace Sieve
	Fusion Parasite
	Dead Seraphim Rain
	Shiver
	Scattered Equinox
	Molten Sky
	Nadir
	Heat Death
	Splintered Spacetime
	Bleeding Soul
	Carrion Galaxy
	Weeping Star
Faction United Sol Trade Alliance FlagShipNames	#Array
	The Apocalypse Engine
	The God Machine
	The Chaos Device
	Angel Wreckage
	The Extinction Dream
	The Genocide God
	Cosmic Abortion
	Stillborn Star

Faction Iroquois Resurgence	Iroquois Resurgence
Faction Iroquois Resurgence AbbreviatedName	IR
Faction Iroquois Resurgence ShipPrefix	ISF
Faction Iroquois Resurgence Description
	The appearance of the Iroquois Resurgence faction was a surprise to all of the human race. Roughly eighty years after the Cataclysm, after most of the factions had settled down across the solar system, the Iroquois Resurgence suddenly announced their existence, a recent offshoot of the USTA, declaring independence from their parent faction. At the point of secession, they had control of several moons of Neptune, and a few asteroids in the belt.
	The USTA responded with threats of destruction immediately (as soon as light could carry their message, at least), but at the time, no one had invested in a space miltiary hardware. The IR-USTA war was the first all war set entirely in space, and it set the stage for all future space warfare. The USTA, using their combined experience of hundreds of years of naval, air, and ground battles, rapidly discovered that nearly everything they were used to was completely obsolete. Specifically, the logistics of maintaining a space war were several orders of magnitude more difficult to manage than ground wars. The first war was punctuated by warships getting their propellant tanks punctured, their ships stranded, out of delta-v, aluminum tombs in orbit across the solar system, and the very rare combat engagement.
	In the end, the USTA gave up their war, and instead have devoted the following years to simple trade sanctions as retaliation. To this day, the Iroquois Resurgence remains a small but significant faction, owning various small moons and asteroids across the entire solar system.
Faction Iroquois Resurgence ShipNames	#Array
	Dagosg:nah
	Sgaji':na'
	Oshisda'
	Ohgw:ih
	Sghn'ksh
	Thahy:nih
	Dege:y'gi'
	J:hah
Faction Iroquois Resurgence FlagShipNames	#Array
	Ghgwa:'
	hn'da'
	Ohnganos
	Hod:no:da'
	Tsadegaya dagwe:d:yo
	Gan:ye:da

Faction The Liberty Exchange	The Liberty Exchange
Faction The Liberty Exchange AbbreviatedName	LE
Faction The Liberty Exchange ShipPrefix	LSF
Faction The Liberty Exchange Description
	The Liberty Exchange is a loose confederation of independent moons and asteroids dedicated towards maintaining a free and neutral trade alliance. Unlike the United Sol Trade Alliance (USTA), which is an entity formed out of political ties rather than economic ties, the Liberty Exchange are actually a trade alliance.
	It is composed of hundreds of major and minor corporations. The Liberty Exchange have been around for a long time as a loose collective of scattered firms, but have only recently considered themselves an official coalition.
	With an almost fanatical devotion to capitalism, and a profound indifference to military warfare, they have managed to stay neutral in every conflict since the Cataclysm. However, critics are quick to point out that they have had a crucial role in funding and supplying arms to any and all sides of every conflict indiscriminately. For the sake of capitalism, of course.
	Others have also observed that they try to avoid helping out one side too heavily in a bid to prolong conflicts. Conflicts which end too rapidly are not as profitable to them. They also have a pointed dislike of nuclear weapons, and have always voiced opposition against treaties that allow them to be used on terrestial bodies, likely because they end conflicts too quickly.
	Interestingly enough, they were the first faction to outright reject a centralized currency, opting to only recognize cryptocurrencies: only offshoots of old Earth's Bitcoins would be accepted as legal tender. Using their tremendous economic leverage, their early adoption of all of these cryptocurrencies forced out government-backed currencies from the solar markets.
	In keeping with their strong dislike of centralization, the Liberty Exchange has set up a sort of checks-and-balances between corporations, where the majority of member corporations will gradually weaken any other member corporation which grows too powerful. In this way, no single corporation has been able to achieve a monopoly on any market in the solar system, despite the lack of any central government oversight. It's an unstable equilibrium, where power is carefully shared between a smattering of corporations, but it has been in place for decades without failure.
	The Liberty Exchange tend to traffic in all possible commerce, though their primary focus is on construction of terrestial cities and space stations. Arguably, their eagerness to delve in all manner of commerce, or at least refuse to restrict any types of commerce, has led them to being the primary trafficker of slavery and prostitution in the solar system.
	'Here for the cash, not the cargo' is their motto, reflecting their so called capitalistic neutrality.
	Their presence is scattered across the entire solar system, occupying mostly small moons and asteroids, as well as jointly controlling many smaller 'neutral zones' on many of the larger moons and planets. They have no central headquarters, being a confederation of corporations, although their largest claim is the center of commerce of the Jovian system, Memphis Facula City, on Ganymede.
Faction The Liberty Exchange ShipNames	#Array
	Whispering Sun
	Galatic Ghost
	Solar Memory
	Cosmic Fingerprint
	Magnetic East
	Photon Web
	Impulse Shock
	Neutronic Rain
	Void Ripple
	Ishiman
Faction The Liberty Exchange FlagShipNames	#Array
	Rand
	Demosthenes
	Locke

Faction Rogue Faction	Rogue Faction
Faction Rogue Faction AbbreviatedName	Rogue
Faction Rogue Faction ShipPrefix	RS
Faction Rogue Faction Description
	It is extremely rare for high ranking military members of the Republic of Free People to turn traitor, as loyality is the most significant factor in grooming for officers. Cases of actual treason tend to be isolated incidents of extreme circumstances, and often require a multitude of factors, including sudden mental illness, and bribery or extortion by an opposing faction. The United Sol Trade Alliance is one such factions with a long history of attempting to corrupt or coerce military officers from other factions.
Faction Rogue Faction ShipNames	#Array
	Trinity Fragment
	Icy Prominence
	Entropic Penumbra
	Stellar Shroud
	Spacetime Sluice
	Matahari
	Arusha
	Soce Halo
Faction Rogue Faction FlagShipNames	#Array

Faction Republic Executive Branch	Republic Executive Branch
Faction Republic Executive Branch AbbreviatedName	REB
Faction Republic Executive Branch ShipPrefix	RES

Faction Nippon Prime	Nippon Prime
Faction Nippon Prime AbbreviatedName	NP
Faction Nippon Prime ShipPrefix	NSF
Faction Nippon Prime Description
	Arguably the only faction to retain a single, national identity from Earth, Nippon Prime is the spacefaring evolution of the nation of Japan from Earth, and is the only faction to traces its formation to pre-Cataclysm history. Nippon Prime originally started as a right wing political party of pre-Cataclysm Japan, regularly calling for the militarization of the country, due to rising tensions with the UKPP (Unified Korean Peninsular Protectorate). The political party had substantial backing from the country's military industrial complex, it's robotics and cybernetics industries, and most of all, it's space industry.
	When the Cataclysm happened, Nippon Prime was already well established in the solar system, with small research colonies dotting the solar system, from the moons of Uranus to the moons of Saturn, to several asteroids. And when key members Japanese leadership, including the prime minister, evacuated Earth, their rocket trying to catch the Japanese skyhook disintegrated after launch in one of the only accidental failures of Nippon Prime's nearly spotless record of perfect launches.
	The loss of key elements of the Japanese government vastly increased the political control Nippon Prime had. In the first democratic election after that disaster, Nippon Prime gained control of a majority in the legislature, and installed their own radical prime minister. Over time, playing on fears of human extinction, promising strength and survival, Nippon Prime dissolved the democratic government and implemented a monarchy. They have maintained a strong presence across the solar system ever since.
	Nippon Prime has major claims in the Uranus system and the Saturn system, and holds close ties to the USTA, being the primary trading partner to the USTA. They hold a few claims in the inner solar system, but that presence is rather minor compared to other factions there. As the years have passed since the first space war between the USTA and the IR, Nippon Prime has engaged in numerous successful military campaigns across the solar system, slowly subsuming smaller factions either through threat of destruction or through destruction itself.
	They are led by the Eternal Empress Kinoshita Asami, who has apparently led Nippon Prime since it's days back on Earth, over 200 years ago. It is unclear whether Nippon Prime has developed a method of life extension that is vastly more effective than anything in existence on the market, or if Kinoshita has simply been cloned numerous times and a new Empress is unfrozen and grown to replace the old one every time the last one gets old or dies, or if the Empress is simply an extremely convincing android doppleganger created to replace the real Empress who would have died a long time ago.
Faction Nippon Prime ShipNames	#Array
	Amagi
	Nagato
	Kaga
	Fuso
	Kongo
	Kirishima
	Chokai
	Yubari
	Katori
	Jun'yo
	Mikazuki
	Ygumo
	Mutsuki
	Wakaba
	Ygure
	Hibiki
	Nara
	Momi
	Sanae
	Ikazuchi
	Yukikaze
	Michishio
	Oyashio
	Sazanami
	Takanami
	Tone
	Chikuma
	Suzuya
	Nojima
	Hosho
	Ryujo
	Hiryu
	Shokaku
	Taiho
	Zuiho
	Chitose
	Chiyoha
	Shikinami
	Karukaya
	Akisame
	Takashio
	Yamazuki
	Yukigumo
	Hae
	Hayaharu
	Matsu
	Nashi
	Wakakusa
	Hayabusa
	Chidori
	Kiji
	Ataka
	Suma
	Shimushu
	Etorofu
Faction Nippon Prime FlagShipNames	#Array
	Okinawa
	Akagi
	Yamato
	Sakura
	Katsuragi





Concept Delta-v	Delta-v
Concept Delta-v Subject	Orbital Mechanics
Concept Delta-v Description
	Delta-v, or change in velocity, measured in meters per second (m/s), usually in kilometers per second (km/s), is a measure of impulse needed to execute orbital maneuvers. Delta-v is not a rate of change, it is a measure of how much a ship's velocity can change. Every time a ship executes a thruster burn, such as during a mission, an amount of delta-v is spent. Each ship has a delta-v budget, which is the total velocity that that ship can alter its current velocity.
	Although delta-v is a measure of propellant left, it is the same for all ships. However, how much propellant each amount of delta-v is equivalent to varies by ship. For example, for a small ship, 1 kiloton of propellant might equal 3 km/s of delta-v, while for a larger ship, 1 kiloton of propellant might be only 1 km/s of delta-v.

Concept Basic Orbital Mechanics	Basic Orbital Mechanics
Concept Basic Orbital Mechanics Subject	Orbital Mechanics
Concept Basic Orbital Mechanics Description
	The higher an orbit (i.e. the further away from the orbited body an object is), the slower an object moves. Thus, to speed up, lower your orbit. To slow down, raise your orbit. This necessarily means that objects in lower orbits will move much faster than objects in higher orbits, and as a result, will have more maneuvering options. At the same time, the lower and faster your orbit, the more delta-v it costs to change anything about that orbit. Orbital height is a tradeoff between maneuverability/speed and delta-v cost.
	The most efficient way to raise or lower an orbit is through a burn tangential to the orbited object and in line with the current velocity. This is usually done with the red thrust manipulator.

Concept Orbital Inclination	Orbital Inclination
Concept Orbital Inclination Subject	Orbital Mechanics
Concept Orbital Inclination Description
	An inclined orbit is one that is not coplanar with another orbit. Switching between two orbits that are not in the same 2D plane is extremely costly in terms of delta-v.
	The most efficient way to switch between them is to burn at one of two points where your current orbit intersects the plane of the target orbit. The easiest way to find these two points where the planes intersect is to look at one of the orbits side-on, so that they both appear to be intersecting flat lines. The flat lines will intersect each other at exactly two points, and these two points are where inclination burns are most efficiently made. Note that this will not be the fastest way to reach a target, only the most delta-v efficient way.
	If you wait until your trajectory is at one of these two points, you can use the out-of-plane (blue) thruster manipulator at that exact point. If executed successfully, one can transfer planes and no longer need to use the out-of-plane thrust manipulator.
	On a different note, using an out-of-plane target as a frame of reference can be very difficult, and so there is an visual option to project the current trajectory on to the frame of reference's plane (upper left corner). This means that the trajectory will be drawn a second time in dark blue as if it were in plane with the target. This allows the dark blue trajectory to be plotted first, and then later, the actual trajectory can be matched using out-of-plane burns.

Concept Retrograde and Prograde Orbits	Retrograde and Prograde Orbits
Concept Retrograde and Prograde Orbits Subject	Orbital Mechanics
Concept Retrograde and Prograde Orbits Description
	A prograde orbit is an orbit which matches the rotation of the body it orbits, while a retrograde orbit runs in the opposite direction. Most orbits in the solar system are prograde, matching the rotation axis of their orbited body.
	Switching from a prograde to retrograde orbit, or vice versa, tends to be very expensive in terms of delta-v. To make such a switch, simply use the tangential red thrust manipulator and pull the orbit into the reverse direction of travel until a backwards ellipse or circle is formed.
	Perfectly planning a retrograde combat intercept is akin to hitting one bullet with a second bullet in the opposite direction. One tiny nudge of the target ship can cause your ships to miss the intercept by kilometers or worse due to the enormous speeds. Additionally, combat will often go by so quickly that one won't have time to actually react to anything that happens in such a case.

Concept Lagrange Point	Lagrange Point
Concept Lagrange Point Subject	Orbital Mechanics
Concept Lagrange Point Description
	Every body that orbits another larger body has up to five lagrange points. These are points of gravitational stability between the two celestial bodies where a spaceship or anything really can rest.
	The first two points, L_1 and L_2 are located very close to the smaller body, while L_3 is located on the opposite side of the larger body. However, L_1, L_2, and L_3 are all unstable, which means they require constant stationkeeping to stay in them.
	L_4 is located in an equilateral triangle planar with the orbital plane, with the smaller body and the larger body forming two corners of the triangle, and L_4 forming the third corner. L_5 forms another equilateral triangle in the opposite direction (but still coplanar). Both L_4 and L_5 are stable, so ships can keep an orbit around them without spending fuel to stationkeep. L_4 and L_5 are zones rather than single points because they are stable, which means the entire general area can support ships and stations.
	When a ship orbits the L_4 and L_5 points, their orbits can take on any number of interesting shapes, from figure eight orbits to tadpole orbits to horseshoe orbits, relative to the smaller body. Note that these shapes do not move relative to the smaller body; all Lagrange Points are static relative to the smaller body, and orbit the larger body like any celestial body would.
	To reach any of the Lagrange Points from the smaller body, aside from L_1 and L_2, one needs to escape the gravity well of the smaller body, and enter an orbit around the larger body. For instance, to reach the Earth-Luna L_5 point while orbiting Luna, one would have to exit Luna's orbit and fall into Earth's orbit to reach that zone.

Concept Orbital Escape	Orbital Escape
Concept Orbital Escape Subject	Orbital Mechanics
Concept Orbital Escape Description
	Escaping the gravity well of a celestial body simply involves applying enough delta-v to achieve a hyperbolic trajectory about that body. Escaping that body's gravity well will leave your spacecraft in orbit of the parent body's gravity well.
	When making an escape from a circular orbit, for instance, it is intuitive that the wider the circular orbit is, the easier it is to escape, because wider orbits are slower than tighter orbits, thus, less delta-v is needed to break free. However, what may not be immediately obvious is that not every point on that circular orbit is equal in terms of delta-v needed to escape.
	A circular orbit is moving in a perpetually changing direction at a constant speed. If you wish to exit that circular orbit in a certain direction, the best place to exit would be at the point where the circular orbit's tangential velocity is already in the direction you wish to go in. In that case, you already have the orbit's high speed pay for some of the delta-v cost. In the worst case, when you are going the opposite direction as your orbit, you will have to essentially pay the delta-v needed for a retrograde orbit, and then the exit delta-v cost.
	Thus, waiting until you are at the right place in your orbit can save you delta-v when making an orbital escape. The downside is that you have to wait until you're at the right point on your orbit, which can be a problem when you have a tight time limit.
	A final note about exiting a body's gravity well: much as tangential burns are the most delta-v efficient way of changing orbital height, tangential burns are also the most delta-v efficient way of achieving escape velocity. Once again, this is not necessarily intuitive, as one might think burning directly away from the body would be most efficient.

Concept Orbital Elements	Orbital Elements
Concept Orbital Elements Subject	Orbital Mechanics
Concept Orbital Elements Description
	Every orbit around a celestial body can be described as a circle or an ellipse around that body. If it is circular, the orbited body is at the very center of that circle, but if the orbit is elliptical, the orbited body is at one of the foci of the ellipse, meaning that the ellipse is unsymmetric in terms of distance to the orbited body. This is why there is an apoapsis and a periapsis for elliptical orbits. See apsis for more information.
	Every orbit can be described using six orbital elements: Eccentricity, Semimajor Axis, Inclination, Longitude of the Ascending Node, Argument of the Periapsis, Mean Anomaly at Epoch.
	The Eccentricity of an orbit describes how elliptical it is, with zero being circular, and flattening into an ellipse as it approaches one. An orbit with an eccentricity greater than one is hyperbolic, meaning it does not orbit the body at all, and is instead executing a flyby.
	The Semimajor Axis of a body indicates the average major distance to the body's center, which for a circular orbit is simply the radius of the circle.
	The Inclination of an orbit is how inclined it is to a relative plane. If it is zero, the orbit can be thought of entirely in a two-dimensional fashion, relative to the plane it is in.
	The Longitude of the Ascending Node indicates exactly in what direction an inclined orbit is oriented. For instance, two orbits may have an inclination of 45, but they will not be coplanar if their Longitude of the Ascending Node elements are different, as the 45 degree inclinations will be facing different directions. Obviously, this is irrelevant if the inclination is zero.
	The Argument of Periapsis indicates where the periapsis is along the orbit; in essence, how the orbit is rotated after the inclination is applied. This is irrelevant if the orbit is circular, since there will be no apsis.
	Mean Anomaly at Epoch is the final element, and it simply indicates where along the orbit the orbiting body is, relative to some point in time (the Epoch).

Concept Hyperbolic Trajectories	Hyperbolic Trajectories
Concept Hyperbolic Trajectories Subject	Orbital Mechanics
Concept Hyperbolic Trajectories Description
	Whenever a circular orbit is accelerated in, it becomes elliptical, and the faster one accelerates an orbit, the more elliptical it becomes. At a certain point, the eccentricity of that orbit exceeds one, meaning the orbital is no longer elliptical, and it is instead hyperbolic. An orbit which has an eccentricity of exactly one is parabolic, which is exactly in between elliptical and hyperbolic, but it's a rare case and not very relevant.
	Hyperbolic orbits are not truly orbits, because they don't periodically circle the target body, they simply approach the target body and then fly off in an escape trajectory. The amount of velocity required to achieve a hyperbolic trajectory from an orbit is called the escape velocity, because upon acheiving a hyperbolic trajectory, one escapes the orbited body's gravity well.
	A hyperbolic trajectory to a celestial body is simply an elliptical orbit to the parent body. For example, a hyperbolic trajectory about Luna would be an elliptical orbit around Earth, and a hyperbolic trajectory about Earth would be an elliptical orbit around Sol, and a hyperbolic trajectory about Sol is actually an elliptical orbit around the Milky Way Galactic Core.
	Missiles are often fired in hyperbolic trajectories at enemies, because the trajectory is faster, and there is no need to ever swing around a second time. If the missiles miss, they are not reused. They do not appear as orbits around the nearest body, instead appearing as straight lines because that truly is their path relative to that body. To achieve a hyperbolic trajectory, nothing special needs to be done; simply apply copious amounts of delta-v.

Concept Apsis	Apsis
Concept Apsis Subject	Orbital Mechanics
Concept Apsis Description
	Any elliptical orbit has two apsis: the apoapsis, which is the point on the orbit furthest from the orbited body; and the periapsis, which is the nearest point on the orbit to the body.
	Circular orbits have no such apsis, because all points on the orbit are equidistant from the orbited body.
	Assuming an elliptical orbit with apsis, the velocity at the periapsis is the highest, and the velocity at the apoapsis is the lowest, as the orbital speed is directly related to the distance to the orbited body. The significant velocity difference between the two apsis is often unexpected, and not necessarily intuitive, since in highly elliptical orbits, the orbiter will zoom through the periapsis, and then spend a very long time at the apoapsis.
	A good mnemonic to learn apsis to think "apo" is similar "apart", so the apoapsis is the further apart point of the ellipse, while the periapsis is the closest point of the ellipse.

Concept Hill Sphere	Hill Sphere
Concept Hill Sphere Subject	Orbital Mechanics
Concept Hill Sphere Description
	All celestial bodies have a roughly determined region of stability, called the Hill Sphere, which very approximately determines the region of stability for orbits around that body. Objects orbiting the body outside of this region will be unable to hold a stable orbit, even with stationkeeping. Outside the Hill Sphere, orbits will decay until the orbit becomes an orbit around the parent body. For instance, if orbiting Luna outside of Luna's Hill Sphere, the orbit will decay until the orbit becomes an orbit around Earth.
	This region's size is based on the masses of the orbited body and its parent body, and how far away it is from the parent body. For example, the Hill Sphere of Neptune is much larger than the Hill Sphere of Jupiter, because although it is less massive than Jupiter, it is significantly further away from Sol, and so Sol's gravity is much weaker at that distance.
	The Hill Sphere generally lies somewhat within with the L_1 and L_2 points of a body.
	When executing orbital maneuvers, any orbit which extends out further than the Hill Sphere (even if the periapsis lies within the Hill Sphere) is not stable, and thus, you will be unable to maintain such a stationkept orbit. Similarly, you will be unable to excecute orbital maneuvers that interact with the body, such as entering a circular orbit around the body, unless your fleet is within the Hill Sphere.
	Some bodies have a Hill Sphere that is smaller than the size of the body. This means it is impossible to orbit such bodies. Around gas giants, this tends to be true for the inner moons, while the outer moons tend to still have a hill sphere.

Concept Orbital Perturbation	Orbital Perturbation
Concept Orbital Perturbation Subject	Orbital Mechanics
Concept Orbital Perturbation Description
	Orbital Perturbation of an orbit is all the forces other than the gravity experienced from the primary gravitational body. Some examples include celestial body oblateness, radiation pressure, atmospheric drag, and the gravitational force from other nearby celestial bodies.
	Many of these effects are marginal, and can usually be ignored. However, gravitational forces from other celestial bodies can, in some cases, be huge. For example, an object orbiting Io, a moon of Jupiter, will experience a significant gravitational force from Jupiter. This will cause the orbit around Io to not be perfectly circular or elliptical, and in some cases, Jupiter's gravity will cause that orbit to decay. Over time, the object may be pulled completely out of Io's orbit.
	As a result, most spacecrafts perform stationkeeping most of the time, which keeps orbits perfectly circular or elliptical. Starting a trajectory will stop stationkeeping, however, and this is why trajectories may diverge heavily from the original orbital path.
	This divergence can cause many orbital techniques to fail, such as Orbit Phasing or Hohmann Transfers.

Concept Stationkeeping	Stationkeeping
Concept Stationkeeping Subject	Orbital Mechanics
Concept Stationkeeping Description
	Most ships are always performing stationkeeping, which is making tiny thrusts in order to keep their orbit perfectly elliptical or circular. Orbits over time degrade due to orbital perturbation and radiation pressure, but stationkept orbits stay perfectly periodic. As soon as you start a trajectory, your ships stop stationkeeping, so the orbit can decay or change completely over time.
	Orbital perturbation happens because planets and asteroids are not perfectly spherical, which causes the orbits to not behave perfectly elliptically. It also happens because other celestial bodies have their own gravitational pull, which affects everything. For example, a ship in a circular orbit around Luna will experience a significant gravitational pull from Earth, constantly pulling the orbit into a noncircular, unstable pattern.
	Radiation pressure is force applied from solar wind and the photons emitted from the sun, and can also perturb orbits over time.
	A final force that can affect orbits and make them non-elliptical is atmospheric drag; however, this is only relevant for spacecrafts in extremely low orbits around bodies with atmosphere.
	Because these forces can affect orbits and make them lose their perfect elliptical or circular nature, this can actually be a valuable technique to get around. After starting a trajectory, a spacecraft stops stationkeeping, and instead can be pulled around by the gravitational forces, and can sometimes get you where you need to be without expending any delta-v.

Concept Space Rendezvous and Interception	Space Rendezvous and Interception
Concept Space Rendezvous and Interception Subject	Orbital Mechanics
Concept Space Rendezvous and Interception Description
	In order for two ships to meet in orbit, or for two fleets to join up anywhere in space, a space rendezvous must occur. Space rendezvous, like the N-body problem, remains an unsolved problem in physics. All solutions are approximations, since rendezvousing in space while using a minimal amount of delta-v and in the shortest possible time is an optimization problem with 18 degrees of freedom (6 degrees of freedom, plus their first and second derivatives, although in practice, a number of these degrees of freedom can be pruned away).
	As a result, a space rendezvous is not always guaranteed. The rendezvous can fail due to the gravity of the nearest celestial body overwhelming the craft's acceleration, or it can take too much delta-v or time to be feasible. To ensure effective rendezvous, the attempt should start when the positions and velocities are as similar as possible between both fleets.
	Intercepting enemy fleets functions similarly. Something to note is that although retrograde intercepts are possible, the difficulty and the tiny window of time that ships are in range granted by the retrograde intercept makes them generally not useful.
	The best way to guarantee a cheap space rendezvous is to make sure the difference in velocity between the chaser and the target is as low as possible.

Concept Hohmann Transfer	Hohmann Transfer
Concept Hohmann Transfer Subject	Orbital Mechanics
Concept Hohmann Transfer Description
	A Hohmann Transfer is a technique to transfer between two circular orbits around the same body, but of different sizes. An example would be an interlunar transfer between two orbiting moons around a planet.
	To execute a Hohmann Transfer, one only needs to make two separate tangential burns. First, one burn causes the current orbit to become an ellipse until that ellipse osculates the target orbit. Then, when the craft reaches that osculation, the craft must then make another tangential burn to normalize it's ellipse into a circular orbit.
	If a specific position is desired along the target orbit, the Hohmann Transfer does not guarantee that unless Synodic Periods are taken into account. Alternatively, burning additional fuel can overcome this timing restriction.

Concept Synodic Period	Synodic Period
Concept Synodic Period Subject	Orbital Mechanics
Concept Synodic Period Description
	The orbital period of a body is the time it takes for that body to orbit it's parent body. The synodic period between two bodies is the time interval upon which those two objects appear at the same point in relation to each other. For example, if two moons are side by side but one is in a wider orbit, they will move at different speeds. They will no longer be side by side for quite a while, but they will eventually match back up after a period of time. That period of time is the Synodic Period.
	This is of importance for Hohmann Transfers between two bodies around a parent. Such a Hohmann transfer would require a specific time interval to be viable, which means the initial craft has to wait until the correct time presents itself to properly excute the transfer.

Concept Oberth Effect	Oberth Effect
Concept Oberth Effect Subject	Orbital Mechanics
Concept Oberth Effect Description
	Burning around a gravity well is most efficient in terms of delta-v when used at the lowest point of that gravity well. For example, given an elliptical orbit around a planet, burning when you are nearest to the planet, at the periapsis, is more efficient than when you are furthest from that planet, at the apoapsis. A circular orbit has no such advantage in this regard. An orbital maneuver which takes advantage of this effect is called a powered flyby, or an Oberth Maneuver.

Concept Orbital Burns	Orbital Burns
Concept Orbital Burns Subject	Orbital Mechanics
Concept Orbital Burns Description
	When orbiting an object, the three most relevant directions to burn in are tangential, radial, and out-of-plane.
	Tangential (red) is perpendicular to the orbited body, but still in the 2D plane of the orbit.
	Radial (green) is still in the 2D orbital plane, but it is directly away from or towards the orbited body.
	Out-of-plane (blue) is directly perpendicular to the orbital plane, and is only useful for making orbital inclination adjustments. If where you want to go is in the same orbital plane as you, there is no need to ever use an out-of-plane burn.

Concept Orbit Phasing	Orbit Phasing
Concept Orbit Phasing Subject	Orbital Mechanics
Concept Orbit Phasing Description
	Orbit Phasing is a technique that allows you to intercept with a target when you share the same orbit as the target but are in a different position along that orbit. Sharing an orbit with a target means you will never catch up to the target, because your orbital periods are identical.
	Contrary to intuition, you can not simply accelerate at your target if they are ahead of you in an orbit, nor can you simply decelerate if they are behind you to reach your target. Accelerating towards your target will widen your orbit, and put you in a higher, slower orbit than your target, while decelerating will tighten your orbit, putting you in a lower, faster orbit. In either case, you will end up even further away from your target. This was discovered early on in spaceflight by NASA in the mid 20th century.
	To actually intercept your target in this way, you can use orbit phasing.
	Orbit phasing involves either accelerating or decelerating in a direction tangential to your current velocity. This will cause your orbit to widen or shrink, both of which reduce your orbital period. Additionally, you will eventually reach the exact same point as when you burned. Timed correctly, you can perfectly intercept any co-orbiting target with a single tangential burn (though if you also want to match velocities at the intercept, you will need a final burn as well).
	The actual result of orbit phasing is opposite what intuition would indicate. To reach a target in front of you, you need to decelerate, since this will bring you closer to the gravitational source, ultimately speeding you up. To reach a target behind you, you need to accelerate, since this will bring you further from the gravitational source, slowing you down.
	Some warnings about Orbit Phasing. If the orbit is elliptical, orbit phasing will not work except at the periapsis (the point closest to the orbital center). Second, if the orbital perturbation is large, orbit phasing may fail or may require additional corrections burns to stay on track.

Concept Gravitational Slingshot	Gravitational Slingshot
Concept Gravitational Slingshot Subject	Orbital Mechanics
Concept Gravitational Slingshot Description
	Also known as a Gravity Assist Maneuver, a Gravitational Slingshot is a maneuver where a spacecraft uses a celestial body with a deep gravity well to accelerate or decelerate without using fuel. By exploiting the Oberth Effect deep while within the gravity well, the maneuver becomes a Powered Slingshot, and its efficacy increases greatly.

Concept Long Distance Trajectories	Long Distance Trajectories
Concept Long Distance Trajectories Subject	Orbital Mechanics
Concept Long Distance Trajectories Description
	If you need to alter your trajectory, it is cheapest in terms of delta-v to do so as far away as possible. For example, if you are injecting into a moon's orbit from far away, and you need to change your orbital inclination when you arrive, it's far cheaper to make the required inclination burn long before you ever enter the moon's orbit.
	This is very important for saving delta-v whenever you have a trajectory that involves more than one celestial body, such as transferring between two moons, or going from a celestial body to either of its L_4 or L_5 Lagrange Points.
	In particular, orbital inclination burns are always best done as far away as possible, because the orbital inclination axis don't affect the other two axis of motion.
	One other related note on long distance transfers involving a celestial body, is that injecting into a circular orbit around that body after such a long distance is often the cheapest and simplest way to get captured by that body. After injecting into a circular orbit, the orbit can be easily tweaked and changed as necessary.

Concept Multi-stage Trajectories	Multi-stage Trajectories
Concept Multi-stage Trajectories Subject	Orbital Mechanics
Concept Multi-stage Trajectories Description
	When planning a trajectory that involves more than a single central body, certain considerations must be made.
	Getting to the destination in a single burn or few burns will likely be extremely difficult or impossible. Once multiple bodies are to be considered, multiple burns, at least one per body, are often very necessary. One burn to escape each orbit, and one burn to inject into each orbit. More burns per body may be necessary to correct orbital inclination.
	For example, consider a spacecraft orbiting a moon of Jupiter with a destination of space station orbiting a moon of Saturn. First, a burn must be made to break free of the moon. That puts the spacecraft in an orbit around Jupiter now. A second burn breaks free from Jupiter, putting the craft in orbit around Sol.
	Now a burn must be made to actually get a flyby of Saturn. But this will mean the trajectory will go flying past Saturn, and trying to join with the station will be impossible at those speeds.
	A burn must be made to inject into orbit around Saturn. Then, the trajectory needs to be directed at the moon of Saturn with another burn. Then, a burn to inject into orbit around that moon. Finally, at this point, the problem reduces to a single body problem, with both the spacecraft and the destination space station orbiting the same body. From then on, the problem is solved with standard orbital maneuvers (Hohmann Transfers, Orbit Phasing, Orbital Inclination Changes, etc.).

Concept Generalized Bi-elliptic Maneuver	Generalized Bi-elliptic Maneuver
Concept Generalized Bi-elliptic Maneuver Subject	Orbital Mechanics
Concept Generalized Bi-elliptic Maneuver Description
	A Bi-elliptic Transfer is a maneuver which transfers between two circular orbits, similar to a Hohmann Transfer, though it can often do it at a cheaper delta-v cost. The Generalized Bi-elliptic Maneuver modifies this technique to cheaply accomplish a lot of normally expensive orbital maneuvers, such as switching between retrograde and prograde orbits, or changing orbital inclination.
	Consider a spacecraft in a prograde circular orbit around a planet at 5 km/s. To switch into a retrograde orbit, the spacecraft must spend a total of 10 km/s, 5 km/s to get to a standstill (which would cause the ship to fall straight into the planet), and then another 5 km/s to get into a reverse orbit around the planet.
	To get around this high cost, instead the spacecraft can spend delta-v to widen its orbit into an ellipse. Then, at the apoapsis, or the further point on the elliptical orbit from the planet, the spacecraft can then execute the retrograde burn. The ellipse wraps back around to the initial point, and a final burn is needed to get back into the initial orbit, only retrograde this time. At the apoapsis of this ellipse, the orbital speed is far lower than 5 km/s, and so the ultimate delta-v cost is quite reduced, even when taking into account the initial and final elliptical burns.
	Such a maneuver could reduce the delta-v cost as low as half the originally predicted amount, or better. And as noted before, it is viable for any sort of maneuver that would ordinarily cost too much delta-v when deep in a planet's gravity well, not just prograde to retrograde switches.
	The tradeoff with this maneuver is that it costs much more time to execute otherwise.
	One final benefit of this maneuver, however, is that it doesn't require the high thrusts that ordinarily would come with making such expensive maneuvers.

Concept Low Acceleration Maneuvers	Low Acceleration Maneuvers
Concept Low Acceleration Maneuvers Subject	Orbital Mechanics
Concept Low Acceleration Maneuvers Description
	In many cases, applying burns to a trajectory is instantaneous. The time spent burning is negligible, and the change in the trajectory appears to be instant. However, in certain cases, such as being deep within a gravity well, or using an ion drive, burns are not instantaneous.
	This causes the effects of thrust (and by extension, acceleration) to not be immediately seen, and can prevent certain trajectory changes from being possible. For example, trying to match the velocity of a target when the target is near may be impossible if one's acceleration is too low. In such a case, one must gradually alter the velocity far away from the target in order to gently join up.
	The cyan trajectory turns orange to indicate that a burn is being executed, and thus a very long orange part of the trajectory indicates the burn must be held for a long period, which usually only shows up during low acceleration maneuvers.
	How low is too low? In general, good acceleration for getting around the solar system is 100 mg_0 or greater (mg_0 is milli g_0's; g_0 is Earth's surface gravitational acceleration, 9.8 m/s^2). Closer to planetary gravity wells, or closer to Sol, you will want higher accelerations though.

Concept Exhaust Velocity	Exhaust Velocity
Concept Exhaust Velocity Subject	Orbital Mechanics
Concept Exhaust Velocity Description
	The exhaust velocity of a rocket engine is the speed at which the exhaust leaves the rocket. It is the most important factor for determining the delta-v of a ship (see The Rocket Equation for more info). Thus, exhaust velocity can be thought of as a measure of the quality of a rocket engine.
	Specific Impulse is a term sometimes used to describe this quality, but such a term is obsolete when not dealing with Earth.
	For concrete examples, most combustion rockets used at the beginning of the 21st century have exhaust velocities between 1 km/s and 5 km/s. Nuclear thermal rockets, the primary engine currently in use by all our capital ships, have exhaust velocities between 5 km/s to 10 km/s. Ion drives tend to have exhaust velocities as high as 200 km/s, but are not used due to their abysmal thrust. See Rocket Power for more info.

Concept The Rocket Equation	The Rocket Equation
Concept The Rocket Equation Subject	Orbital Mechanics
Concept The Rocket Equation Description
	Nearly all of space travel is based on The Rocket Equation (except for reactionless drives, like solar sails). The Rocket Equation demonstrates that the delta-v that a ship has is based on exactly two things: The mass of propellant you expel, and the velocity at which it is exhausted.
	Through The Rocket Equation, a rocket's delta-v is (natural) logarithmically proportional to your mass ratio, and directly proportional to your engine's exhaust velocity.
	As an example, an spacecraft with a mass ratio of approximately 2.7 (Euler's number, e, specifically) will have delta-v exactly equal to the main engine's exhaust velocity. Since the mass ratio's effect is logarithmic, a mass ratio of 7.4 (e^2) will yield twice the delta-v of the engine exhaust velocity, and a mass ratio of 20 (e^3) will yield three times the delta-v of the exhaust velocity.
	For an example, the Space Shuttle, a Earth to LEO (Low Earth Orbit) spacecraft retired in the early 21st century, had a delta-v of approximately 7 km/s, a product of using a two different combustion rockets with exhaust velocities between 2 km/s and 4 km/s with a total effective mass ratio of approximately 16. Another example is the Saturn V, the first Earth to Luna spacecraft from the mid 20th century, had a delta-v of approximately 12 km/s when carrying a full payload to Trans-Lunar Orbit, possible by using combustion rockets with exhaust velocities between 2 and 4 km/s, and a mass ratio of around 23.

Concept Rocket Power	Rocket Power
Concept Rocket Power Subject	Orbital Mechanics
Concept Rocket Power Description
	The power of a rocket is equivalent to the Thrust multiplied by the Exhaust Velocity of that rocket. This demonstrates that for a given amount of power, increasing the exhaust velocity of a drive necessitates reducing the thrust by an equal amount, and vice versa. Thus, engines with excellent exhaust velocity tend to be unusable because the thrust becomes so low that the ship can't even break orbit of asteroids.
	This is why the nuclear thermal rocket, with its comparatively low exhaust velocity (between 5-10 km/s) is used for capital ships as opposed to ion thrusters (with up to 200 km/s exhaust velocities). Despite the wondrous delta-v of ion thrusters, their thrust and acceleration is too weak to be usable for full fledged capital ships executing interplanetary or interlunar maneuvers, lest they take decades to reach their destination. See Rocket Thrust for more information.

Concept Rocket Thrust	Rocket Thrust
Concept Rocket Thrust Subject	Orbital Mechanics
Concept Rocket Thrust Description
	The thrust of a rocket is a very important attribute of a rocket. Although it has no effect on delta-v, it directly determines acceleration. Acceleration of a ship is calculated by the thrust divided by the ship's mass. For example, if an ion thruster generates 100 kN of thrust, and the ship has a mass of 100 tons, then the acceleration of the ship will be 1 m/s^2, or approximately one tenth of a g_0.
	Acceleration of a ship affects three things: what bodies the ship can land and takeoff from, dodging in combat, and most importantly, the rate at which a ship can change its trajectory.
	A ship can only takeoff from a body with a surface gravity less than its acceleration, so in the previous example of the ion thruster, the ship can't takeoff from any planet or from any of the large moons in the solar system, because 1 m/s^2 is too low to do so.
	With a high acceleration, such as when using a nuclear thermal rocket, most changes to a trajectory appear instantaneously. However, with an acceleration lower or close to than the local gravitational acceleration, the trajectory changes slower than the curvature of gravity, yielding unexpected results. Maneuvers such as Hohmann Transfers, or Orbit Phasing, or simply tightening up an orbit are no longer possible, because the ship will change position significantly by the time the burn is finished.
	This is why trajectory plotting is so difficult close the surfaces of high gravity planets: the ship moves significant distance by the time the expected burn has finished, completely throwing off the expected trajectory. See Low Acceleration Maneuvers for more info.

Concept Mass Ratio	Mass Ratio
Concept Mass Ratio Subject	Orbital Mechanics
Concept Mass Ratio Description
	The Mass Ratio of a ship is its wet mass divided by its dry mass. Dry mass is everything except for propellant. Wet mass is everything including propellant. Most ships have mass ratios between 2 and 20, where a mass ratio of 2 means your ship is equal parts propellant and ship, while 20 means your ship is 19 parts propellant and 1 part ship. This is why propellant is almost always the most massive part of building a ship, and usually the most volumetric part as well.
	Mass ratio is very important in The Rocket Equation, as it, along with the exhaust velocity, is one of two attributes that affect the final delta-v of a spacecraft. However, the delta-v is proportional to the logarithm of the mass ratio. This means increasing your mass ratio from 2 to 3 will increase the delta-v significantly, but then the increase from 3 to 4 will increase the delta-v much less, and so on. Most spacecrafts tend to not have a mass ratio in excess of 20 because of the extremely diminishing returns.



Concept Relativistic Effects	Relativistic Effects
Concept Relativistic Effects Subject	Astronomy
Concept Relativistic Effects Description
	The effects of General and Special Relativity have very little influence on the dynamics of the immediate solar system, and on the spacecrafts that travel within it. Special Relativity's effects only become noticable at tremendously high speeds relative to other bodies, at relative speeds close to the speed of light. Thus, spacecrafts within the solar system will never feel any relevant or significant effects.
	General Relativity's effects are only noticable within extremely deep gravity wells, thus the effect is only actually significant very near to the Sun itself, and only Mercury's orbit is close enough to demonstrate significant perturbation due to its effect. Similarly, these effects will never be relevant to spacecrafts traveling within the solar system, and you should never have to worry about Relativity while commanding forces within the solar system.

Concept Asteroid Belts	Asteroid Belts
Concept Asteroid Belts Subject	Astronomy
Concept Asteroid Belts Description
	All asteroid belts, are, contrary to popular belief, extremely sparse. The average distance between asteroids in Sol's asteroid belt is approximately 600,000 km. This means each individual asteroid is so far away from anything else, that going from one asteroid to another is roughly equivalent to going from one planet to another.
	There are no "fields of rocks" in space, as they usually are envisioned, because if the asteroids were that close, they would likely coalesce into a single asteroid. Only around deep gravity wells like planets can ring systems form which are continuous fields of rock and ice.
	An interesting consequence of this is that the asteroid belt can hardly be thought of as a single entity, either politically, or in terms of delta-v "distance", or even in terms of temporal "distance". Although getting from one asteroid to another may be inexpensive in terms of delta-v (via orbit phasing), the time to execute is not feasible for trade, and similarly, using different orbital maneuvers, the time may be quick, but the delta-v cost will be prohibitive for trade, once again.
	For example, plotting a reasonably fast yet inexpensive (delta-v wise) route from one random asteroid to another is often much more difficult than plotting a similar route from one random asteroid to any inner planet, such as Mars.
	There are exceptions, however. Asteroid families are groups of asteroids grouped by an orbital element, like semimajor axis, orbital eccentricity, or orbital inclination. If a family of asteroids all share similar orbital inclinations, you will never have to execute inclination changes when travelling between them, vastly reducing delta-v costs. If a family of asteroids share the same semimajor axis, they share the same orbital period, which means the cost to travel between them is constant, and you never have to wait years and years for them to line up for an ideal transfer to appear.
	As a result, when staging an invasion of an asteroid, or perhaps delivering reinforcements, or trade cargo, other asteroids in that asteroid's family are the cheapest and fastest way to send ships to and from that asteroid.
	The consequences of this are that the asteroid belt can not be considered one monolithic entity, either politically, economically, or culturally. From any single asteroid, over 99% of all other asteroids in the belt are "further" away from that asteroid than the inner planets. Thus, the asteroid belt is very far apart from itself, and only asteroids in the same family can have close trade ties or military ties. Each family of asteroids could develop an consolidated political identity, but between families of asteroids, these asteroid families are about as different and isolated from one another as they are from Mars or Jupiter.

Concept Scale in Space	Scale in Space
Concept Scale in Space Subject	Astronomy
Concept Scale in Space Description
	When including spacecrafts, scale in space spans tens of meters to trillions of kilometers. Zooming in and out of planets, asteroids, and fleets of ships is then necessarily logarithmic.
	In space, it can be very hard to determine distances between objects, or even how large an object is because all frames of references are effectively infinitely far away. Thus, an asteroid may appear the same size as a planet relative to a spacecraft or an orbit, when in fact that asteroid is likely a thousandth of the size of the planet. And in both cases, the spacecrafts relative to either will appear equally small in comparison.

Concept Sound in Space	Sound in Space
Concept Sound in Space Subject	Astronomy
Concept Sound in Space Description
	In case it is not obvious, sound does not travel in space, since there is no atmosphere to carry the sound. Thus, all combat operations, from nuclear detonations to gunfire, are completely silent.
	With that in mind, you can listen to what is happening inside of any allied ships you have selected in combat, from the metal hull groaning under the stress of a nuclear blast vaporizing the outer armor, to the sound of the crew module undergoing explosive decompression when the hull of the module is breached.

Concept Frames of Reference	Frames of Reference
Concept Frames of Reference Subject	Astronomy
Concept Frames of Reference Description
	Because everything in the universe is constantly in motion, there is no such thing as an absolute frame of reference. Not the Earth, not the Sun, not the center of the Milky Way, not even the center of the Universe. As a result, one must choose a frame of reference to work within, which usually is the current celestial body that one is orbiting.
	The frame of reference is the origin, the object which is held stationary, unmoving, which all other motion is measured against. Often, whenever escaping a celestial body's gravity well orbit, one should switch the frame of reference to the new orbited body, otherwise the new orbit will not appear as a normal, elliptical orbit.
	For example, if Luna is the frame of reference, it won't move while Earth and Sol will appear to move relative to it, whereas if Earth is the frame of reference, it will be stationary while Luna and Sol move around it. If Earth is the frame of reference and you are looking at Luna, when time passes, Luna will go shooting away.
	Similarly, if a spacecraft around Luna is the frame of reference, the spacecraft will never move, while Luna will appear to orbit the spacecraft. Trajectories can be viewed in this rotating frame of reference, which can be a very valuable tool to match up a trajectory to a target spacecraft, because the target will never move.



Concept Invasion Propellant Staging	Invasion Propellant Staging
Concept Invasion Propellant Staging Subject	Space Warfare
Concept Invasion Propellant Staging Description
	Planning an invasion requires a tremendous amount of delta-v to be expended to get the invasion fleet to the target body. Thus, ships are often equipped with an additional enormous propellant tank, an extra stage, in order to make the journey and enter the target system with full propellant in their internal tanks.
	The external tank is propellant only, rather than a full stage of propellant and engine. This is because nuclear rocket are rather expensive, and so it is cheaper to simply siphon fuel into the spacecrafts' engines rather than have a whole other nuclear rocket.
	The external tank is jettisoned upon injecting into orbit around the target body, as such an attachment would be very cumbersome in combat and provides no benefit whatsover. All invasions start once the external tank is jettisoned and the invasion fleet is fully captured within the target body's gravity well.
	The unpleasant consequences of this method of planning invasions is that no retreat is possible. Once you enter the target body's gravity well, you are locked there, until you win, or until high command decides to send a rescue, which will likely take months. All officers and ship's crew are well aware of this reality, and it encourages them to perform as best as they can, lest they be trapped orbiting an enemy body until they starve to death.

Concept Lasers and Tracers	Lasers and Tracers
Concept Lasers and Tracers Subject	Space Warfare
Concept Lasers and Tracers Description
	Lasers are invisible in space. If you can see a projectile coming at you, it's not a laser, it's likely a mass projectile with a burning tracer on it.
	In atmosphere, pyrotechnic tracers affect the aerodynamics of bullets and reveal firing positions, and so are used sparingly. In space, neither of those things matter, so all bullets are loaded with a burning pyrotechnic composition for confirming and correcting firing accuracy.
	Actual lasers can sometimes be observed as a point of light emanating from the source (since the beam will diffract enough to be visible even to viewers that are not being fired upon), as well as a point of light when it hits its target. Often, the hit location will be ablating a significant amount of liquified or gaseous material as well.

Concept Subsystem Damage	Subsystem Damage
Concept Subsystem Damage Subject	Space Warfare
Concept Subsystem Damage Description
	In combat, every little subsystem you destroy on an enemy ship will have an effect on that ship's effectiveness.
	Targeting no more than one or two subsystems at a time will ensure your weapons fire is focused enough.
	Obviously, targeting the weapons of a ship yields the greatest bang for your buck, but weapons are often small and hard to hit unless you use a laser. On the other hand, if the weapon is a conventional cannon, then damaging it can detonate rounds in the chamber, often leading to a chain reaction ammo explosion, which is one way in which drones can be easily disabled.
	Hitting the radiators of a spacecraft often tends to be the easiest subsystem to target because of their large size, and although radiators can be armored, they usually are not as armored as the rest of the ship. Furthermore, if you can disable the radiators cooling either the main powerplant of a ship, or the crew compartments, you can basically disable a ship entirely. Generally, you can tell which radiators are cooling the main powerplant by the fact that they are glowing.
	Destroying one or more radiators of a drone is often a sure way to reduce the craft's offensive potential. Thus, although a nuclear missile blast might not be able to penetrate a drone's main armor, it might be able to blast off the radiators, which makes them still effective against drones.
	Taking out the engines can immobilize a ship, which is valuable, but it still can shoot back. However, engines tend to be by far the most fragile exposed component of a spacecraft, so destroying them might be a priority. Additionally, there usually is little armor between the engines and the rest of the ship, so attacking from behind the ship is again very valuable.
	Targeting internal modules like crew compartments or propellant tanks would be valuable, but is not possible if the ship has armor concealing its position.

Concept Ship Destruction	Ship Destruction
Concept Ship Destruction Subject	Space Warfare
Concept Ship Destruction Description
	Capital ships become incapacitated when their crew is killed or unable to function. Spaceships can be split in half (or further) and still function normally, as long as each half has a crew compartment to operate the piece. As long as each crew compartment stays pressurized, a split ship is essentially now two ships. Of course, if there are only engines on one of the halves, the other half won't be able to move, and so on. Ships can keep splitting ad infinitum, and any pieces with crew will still be operational and a threat.
	This is one reason why most ships have at least two crew compartments. However, by far the most important reason behind multiple crew compartments is redundancy, in case one compartment is destroyed from a lucky shot.

Concept Nuclear Chain Reactions	Nuclear Chain Reactions
Concept Nuclear Chain Reactions Subject	Space Warfare
Concept Nuclear Chain Reactions Description
	Something to note about missile destruction, is that some missiles, such as high yield nuclear missiles, upon detonating, can cause a chain reaction of nearby nuclear missiles. This has a counter-intuitive consequence due to the way nuclear weapons operate. A nuclear missile that is destroyed without triggering a detonation will not achieve criticality, which means a chain reaction will not actually be useful, and too large of a missile fleet could actually be less effective than a smaller missile fleet, because the first handful of nuclear detonations can disarm subsequent missiles.
	On the other hand, smaller missile fleets may be completely destroyed by enemy anti-missile fire, so trying to find a good balance on the right fleet size is a nontrivial matter.
	One way to get around such a limitation is to launch a large missile fleet, but to have them begin actively homing on their target at different times, as a way to stagger missile fleets.
	Conventional explosives, such as those used by flak missiles, have no such limitation.

Concept Homing and Countermeasures	Homing and Countermeasures
Concept Homing and Countermeasures Subject	Space Warfare
Concept Homing and Countermeasures Description
	There are a multitude of ways to direct missiles to home in on their targets: Laser Targeting, Heat Seeking, Spectral Seeking, Command Guidance, Beam Riding, Passive Radar, Active Radar, Neutron Guidance, Radio Homing, Magnetic Guidance, and Inertial Guidance. However, for every way for a missile to seek, there is a countermeasure: Stealth Materials, Laser Beacons, Smoke, IR Smoke, Flares, Laser IR Jammers, Radar Jamming, Radar Spoofing, Chaff, Neutron Beacons, Degaussed Armor, Radio Beacons, and simple Acceleration (against Inertial Guidance).
	There is clearly a countermeasure for every possible homing device, and likely counter-countermeasures for each as well, and so homing successfully with missiles is a technology game. Since escalation of countermeasures and counter-countermeasures is an expensive game to play, missiles simply settle on a single, simple homing method: Heat Seeking.
	Heat seeking is nearly guaranteed to work since all capital ships emit tremendous amounts of heat through their radiators, and even if they retract them or shut off their powerplants, the thermal inertia keeps them hot for minutes to hours after shutdown. Heat seeking can not be jammed or redirected at the enemy, and it is very reliable and cheap.
	Of course, flares are a simple but costly (in terms of mass) countermeasure that is used by nearly all capital ships. Flares that can put out enough heat to fool homing missiles have to be very fuel heavy, and also need to be expelled at relatively high velocities to get the flare far away from the capital ship. These properties result in them not being effective on the smallest capital ships (because they are so heavy), and on the largest capital ships with lots of radiators (because they can't put out enough heat to conceal the radiators).

Concept Sensors and Stealth	Sensors and Stealth
Concept Sensors and Stealth Subject	Space Warfare
Concept Sensors and Stealth Description
	Sensors to detect and resolve a target are ultimately diffraction limited, which is an absolute physical limit on telescopic resolution based on the sensor diameter, range, and the wavelength of light. For all military applications, sensors on ships are tiny and unnoticeable, and are capable of resolving capital ships into multiple pixels using visible wavelengths at interlunar ranges. Thus, a military commander should never have to worry about what sort of enemy ships she or he is dealing with once in the same planetary system as the enemy fleet. All external modules on a ship will be visible, resolvable, and targetable.
	There is no stealth in space when dealing with reaction drives (like rockets). The energy produced by any viable reaction drives for a capital ship is so enormous that they could easily be visible across the entire solary system. Reactionless drives produce too little thrust to be tactically and militaristically feasible.
	Every faction controls a network of tiny, cheap satellites and statites around the solar system to look for and track the movement of every single spacecraft in the system, which also prevents directional radiating of waste energy.
	From the energy output of every ship watched, the mass, exhaust velocity, thrust, and trajectory of every enemy ship is catalogued and tracked in real time (as fast as light can travel, at least).

Concept Tactical Coasting	Tactical Coasting
Concept Tactical Coasting Subject	Space Warfare
Concept Tactical Coasting Description
	By default, missiles are set to always home on the greatest heat source, and drones are often trying to always aim with a broadside. Both tend to require the engines to always burn, which drains delta-v rather quickly. If either run out of delta-v, they will begin to tumble, which makes them an much easier target to hit and destroy.
	In combats that start very far away, missiles can easily run out of delta-v long before they get near their target, when in fact, the closer they are to their target, the more important it becomes to have thrust to counteract any dodging the enemy might do.
	However, not spending any thrust at first will yield slow missiles that take too long and get shot down. As a result, in combat, missiles spend propellant best at the start, to gain initial velocity towards the target, then should coast for some time, and then should burn the rest of their propellant at the end of their intercept to lock in their target. These three phases are often referred to as the boost, coast, and terminal phases.
	However, one technique the enemy may use to disrupt an incoming missile salvo is to send out a ship to trigger the proximity detonators of the missiles prematurely. As a result, it is valuable to disarm the proximity detonators (much like you would disable any other module) and only re-enable them once they reach the terminal phase.
	Missiles can also use a controlled homing order to save delta-v while still homing on the greatest heat source, but this is not necessarily guaranteed to save enough delta-v for the terminal phase.
	For drones, saving delta-v is often a priority. This is best done by disabling any broadside orders on them, so they coast through space, and to only order them to broadside once they have a clear shot.

Concept High Speed Intercepts	High Speed Intercepts
Concept High Speed Intercepts Subject	Space Warfare
Concept High Speed Intercepts Description
	Intercepting an enemy can easily happen at high speeds in orbits, because orbital velocities are so great, except around small bodies like asteroids. In particular, attempting to intercept an enemy that is retrograde or out of plane will often yield extremely fast relative velocities in combat.
	High speed combat is often undesirable, because unless the two fleets are perfectly matching their intercept, a small error in velocity yields huge, tens to hundreds of kilometers of difference during the intercept. Additionally, even if one does get a perfect intercept, the window of time in which fleets are in range is measured in seconds as the two fleets zoom by each other, which is not very useful.
	With that in mind, when dealing with units which fire weapons at each other like drones and capital ships, combat is best at low speeds. This is best achieved by not making retrograde intercepts or out of plane intercepts. Also, one can avoid high speed combat by taking a large amount of time to gently intercept the target fleet, such as with an orbit phasing maneuver. Finally, manually intercepting by carefully plotting the intercept burns yourself can help avoid a high speed combat, rather than using the auto-intercept from the dropdown.
	On the other hand, missile fleets might actually benefit from high speed intercepts, because it gives a smaller window of time for the enemy to react, providing one can perfectly intercept the enemy. And finally, fast intercepts have the advantage of being harder for the enemy to evade in orbital view, if the enemy is attempting to avoid combat entirely.

Concept Orbital Evasion	Orbital Evasion
Concept Orbital Evasion Subject	Space Warfare
Concept Orbital Evasion Description
	One way to defeat enemy spacecrafts is to simply run them out of delta-v, by making evasion burns when the enemy tries to intercept. The burns are most effective when done far away, instead of right before the enemy tries to enter combat. Also, liberally spending delta-v is another way to make evasion burns more effective.
	Often times, this requires having much more delta-v than the enemy to start with, so it tends to be most useful against drones and missiles. This also makes a good case for keeping a propellant tanker in your combat fleet.
	Evading intercepts is quite easy in orbital mechanics, but the enemy will often recorrect immediately. Additionally, drones and missiles tend to have much greater acceleration, which means that one can not evade them indefinitely, because the enemy will be able to recorrect faster than one can evade. Thus, over time faster spacecrafts will eventually be able to intercept slower evading crafts. Of course, if the slower craft can drain away the faster craft's delta-v quick enough, this should not be a concern.
	Note that this technique is very powerful even if it is not entirely successful. For example, if you can run a drone fleet out of even half their delta-v, that means they will be able to only do approximately half as many flybys against you. Thus, the effectiveness of drones tends to be directly proportional to their delta-v, whereas with capital ships, their delta-v has very little influence on combat. As a result, even if you can't fully evade combat with drones, even making an attempt at it will still very clearly weaken their incoming attack.

Concept Defensive Combat	Defensive Combat
Concept Defensive Combat Subject	Space Warfare
Concept Defensive Combat Description
	For spacecrafts, the primary defense against enemy munitions is armor, monolithic base plates made of high strength alloys or ceramic, possibly with additional thin whipple shields. Beyond that, there are really only three defensive actions available to spacecraft commanders: range, orientation, and decoys.
	If you simply stay out of range, out of combat entirely, you can avoid their attacks. If your ships' weapons can not outrange your enemy's, and you can't weather their barrage, then you have little choice but to avoid combat via evasion, and only attack with missile or drone fleets.
	Orientation can also make a difference against enemy barrages. The cross section that you present to your enemy will affect how much damage you will suffer. A thin cylinder clearly has a smaller cross section head-on than to the side, so it will receive less hits from enemy projectiles when head-on. On the flip side, one may be required to reorient in order to bring a ship's larger cross section to bear in a broadside.
	A final critical point about orientation: armor becomes more effective when sloped (the steeper the slope, the more effective it becomes). For instance, orienting an armor plate at a 45 degree angle will reduce projectile penetration by 30%, and greater slopes will reduce the damage even further. This is why orienting your spacecrafts in combat is crucial, since the angle of your armor against the incoming enemy barrages can significantly increase your survival odds.
	Decoys are the final defensive measure, and these don't just include flares for fooling homing missiles. Spacecrafts, drones, and missiles all produce significant amounts of heat, and if they are close, they can also fool homing missiles. Sending smaller, faster spacecrafts out in front of the fleet can have them draw off not only missiles, but can also have them attract fire from drones and capital ships.

Concept Drones and Missiles	Drones and Missiles
Concept Drones and Missiles Subject	Space Warfare
Concept Drones and Missiles Description
	Warfare in space has analogues to certain kinds of 21st century warfare practiced on old Earth. For instance, spacecrafts are most similar to submarines, thin cylindrical crafts with extremely tight spacing. On the other hand, the extremely high speeds makes space warfare much more similar to air-to-air combat on Earth.
	The greatest analog, however, is to surface-to-surface naval warfare. Spacecrafts are about the same size as large naval crafts, but tend to be much lighter, due to how terrible mass is for your delta-v. As a result, large capital spacecrafts with lots of delta-v make the large burns to get close to the enemy, and then generally launch drones or missiles at the enemy.
	Drones are analogous to fighters launched from aircraft carriers, or, more correctly, to UAVs, a small but fast craft with a gun on the front. Replacing the live pilot with a remote pilot on the capital ship saves on size and mass of drones, which is crucial for delta-v of both the launching ship and for the drones themselves. Trying to replace capital ships with remote controls as well, however, is not viable, because of the speed of light lag that results from trying to pilot them from across the solar system.
	Missiles are similar to anti-ship or anti-tank missiles from old Earth. The difference here is that explosives of all kinds are extremely weak in space, and point defense systems have evolved enough to disarm a single incoming missile. This means that launching clusters of missiles, entire fleets of them, is much more effective than launching them one at a time, as was the original tactic.

Concept Boarding Combat	Boarding Combat
Concept Boarding Combat Subject	Space Warfare
Concept Boarding Combat Description
	Once a spacecraft is disabled, sometimes boarding and capturing the craft is more valuable than destroying it. Laser weapons and high powered projectile weapons would require too great of a power source to be used as a hand weapon. Classic firearms are most useful in space boarding combat. Frangible Rounds, rounds which disintegrate on contact with hard surfaces, are used to preventing ricochets in the very confined space.
	In that vein, concussion grenades are extremely potent in the small, restricted spaces of crew modules. Concussion grenades have a small kill radius and release no shrapnel, causing minimal collateral damage, ideal for spacecraft boarding. Flashbangs are a great nonlethal option for disabling an entire room as well. Of course, the gravity of these crew modules is going to be zero or nearly zero, so grenade throwing mechanics are thrown for a loop. They will still bounce off of walls the same, but there is no longer any arcing of the grenade.
	Boarding spacecrafts and engaging in Close Quarters Combat (CQC) ends up being quite reminiscent of SWAT team assaults, except in zero gravity. Enemies behind cover in every direction, including above and below, in every orientation, not just left and right. Grenades have no arc, and cover can float about untethered by gravity. Cover being able to float around freely and about means the whole battle space behinds highly dynamic, and enemies won't simply be locked to staying in cover. Suppressive fire no longer is as powerful if enemies can still move even when under fire.
	Every soldier will wear a skintight space activity suit, as the bulky air pressurized suits will be too unwieldy for combat, and suffering a suit breach with a mechanically pressurized suit is not nearly as debilitating as in a air pressurized suit. If the soldiers aren't wearing a suit, the enemy could very easily blast a hole in the hull and depressurize the entire crew module, rapidly killing all soldiers without a suit. This leads to an interesting tactical choice, since depressurizing the crew module will heavily reduce the effects of flashbangs and concussion grenades. that scenario would lead to the use of Frangible Grenades as an alternative to having a grenade which would still operate in vacuum and not yield tremendous shrapnel and ricochets.



Concept Ship Layout	Ship Layout
Concept Ship Layout Subject	Spacecraft Engineering
Concept Ship Layout Description
	Ships are cylindrically shaped for a variety of reasons. The primary concern when designing a ship is the amount of dry mass. Generally, aside from propellant, a warship's armor has far more mass than all other components. Usually, propellant tanks and radiators come next, and then everything else. With this in mind, to reduce the amount of mass needed for the armor, a convex armor shape is needed. The ideal shape is a sphere.
	However, the tremendous radiation emitted by the nuclear reactors and nuclear thermal rockets call for having crew compartments as far away as possible, even in addition to having radiation shielding. With that, a cylinder is the ideal convex shape, with nuclear reactors and engines at one end, and crew compartments towards the other end.
	Additionally, cylindrical shapes are easier to machine than spherical shapes, and are generally better at saving space, since spheres do not subdivide nicely. In combat, a cylinder can be rolled much more quickly than a sphere, in order to bring guns to bear, or to conceal a damaged broadside. A final advantage of cylinders over spheres is that a cylinder is a much harder target to hit than a sphere, as its cross-sectional area is much smaller than a sphere's, given identical volumes.

Concept Spacecraft Scalability	Spacecraft Scalability
Concept Spacecraft Scalability Subject	Spacecraft Engineering
Concept Spacecraft Scalability Description
	Often times when designing spacecrafts, one will come across questions about scaling issues. For example, is a single 100 MW laser better or worse than 100 individual 1 MW lasers? Why do some spacecrafts use many small rocket engines, while other spacecrafts use one very large rocket? Is a swarm of small ships better or worse than one large ship of equivalent mass and firepower? In most cases, the answers are far more complex than one might expect, but a few trends do tend to appear.
	One such trend is that the larger a spacecraft subsystem is, the more efficient it becomes. For instance, the larger you make a laser, the greater the power per volume and power per area. This means, larger systems have a greater distribution of heat and stress throughout the whole system, which allows for much more efficient operation.
	As another example, larger rocket engines actually suffer less stress, as larger thrust chambers distribute the extreme stress of combustion over a larger surface area. The means the chamber walls can be manufactured thinner, and this ultimately is cheaper in terms of mass.
	As a final example, crew modules require a general amount of initial overhead, yet this overhead begins to be reduced the larger and larger you can make these crew modules.
	On the other hand, smaller subsystems allow redundancy, which is extremely important in combat. Ten low efficiency rocket engines is often better than one high efficiency rocket engine when you enter combat, because one rocket can be easily disabled by a stray projectile.
	Most decisions behind this scaling come down to this balance between redundancy and efficiency. However, some other common scaling relationships exist which shouldn't be discounted.
	Volume scales cubically while area scales quadratically, which means the larger the ship you build, the greater the volume to surface area ratio. This means larger ships require less mass for armor proportional to their contents.
	On the other hand, engines are oriented in a flat plane so your thrust scales quadratically, while your volume and mass increase cubically. This means larger ships suffer from lower and lower acceleration the larger they get, even if the number of engines and the thrust of the engines is scaled proportionally.
	A final consideration is that smaller subsystems can be more cheaply produced. Assembly line manufacturing is much cheaper for lots of small systems rather than for few large systems.

Concept Bipropellants	Bipropellants
Concept Bipropellants Subject	Spacecraft Engineering
Concept Bipropellants Description
	Many chemical rockets use bipropellants instead of monopropellants. This is because the exhaust velocity of bipropellants are usually better, because you simply can't store the required energy in a single propellant.
	Additionally, if a monopropellant fuel tank is hit, it will explode, whereas if only one of a bipropellant's fuel tanks is hit, the fuel will simply leak out, because it needs the second propellant to actually combust. The obvious downside to bipropellants is that two different fuel tanks are required, as well as the additional complexity of the rocket engine to properly mix the two propellants during combustion.
	When using a bipropellant rocket, the propellant tanks used need to match up with the fuel to oxidizer mass ratio exactly, otherwise some of the mass will be wasted. Note that this is NOT the same as the stoichiometric mixture ratio, and the fuel to oxidizer mass ratio is a derived quantity, indicated in the engine's rocket information. For example, a oxygen and hydrogen bipropellant rocket with a 1:1 stoichiometric mixture ratio has a 4:1 oxidizer to fuel mass ratio, which means you need 4 times as much mass of oxygen as hydrogen to utilize all the propellant on your spacecraft.

Concept Whipple Shields	Whipple Shields
Concept Whipple Shields Subject	Spacecraft Engineering
Concept Whipple Shields Description
	A whipple shield (or whipple bumper) is a thin layer of aluminum of other low density armor material placed over monolithic armor plates with significant space between the shield and the main plate. The whipple shield itself tends to be destroyed immediately upon impact, but its destruction shocks incoming hypervelocity projectiles into plasma first.
	The spacing between the whipple shield and the main armor allow the plasma time to expand, increasing the surface area, and thus reducing the pressure of the impacting plasma. This greatly reduces the impact of projectile rounds, however it has the unfortunate downside of being a one-use defense for a small area. Subsequent shots in the same area suffer no ill effects. Additionally, a whipple shield can easily be vaporized by a weak nuclear blast at close range.

Concept Spacecraft Armor	Spacecraft Armor
Concept Spacecraft Armor Subject	Spacecraft Engineering
Concept Spacecraft Armor Description
	Spacecraft armor is a convex hull wrapped around the spacecraft's compartments, rather than being form fitting, because convex shapes always have lower surface area than concave shapes.
	Armor on spacecrafts is formed in small, discrete tiles of monolithic plating or simple shielding. Armor integrity is measured by placing sensors all along the inside and the outside of each tile. When the outside sensor is damaged, that tile of armor is marked as damaged. When the inside sensor is damaged, that tile is marked as destroyed.
	Thus, a craft's internal compartments can be damaged or destroyed if only a single tile of armor is destroyed. This is how a spacecraft can be disabled without suffering much damage at all, and this is also why it can be a good idea to reorient your craft in the heat of combat to let your less damaged side begin soaking up damage. Losing an entire spacecraft because a few armor tiles were destroyed is never a good feeling.
	It is not possible to measure "how damaged" a section of armor is without compromising the armor's structural integrity, only if it undamaged, damaged, or destroyed.
	Internal compartments can have armor as well, but it is usually much less than the external plating.
	Armor becomes more effective with how angled it is in comparison to incoming weapons fire. Thus, armor can be made more effective by sloping it, such as with a gradual slope on the nose cone of a spacecraft.
	Finally, one might assume that using materials with extremely high reflectivity, such as silver, would make that material impervious to laser ablation damage. However, upon any sort of damage, the reflectivity of any material drops dramatically, rendering this idea infeasible.
	As a final point, armor is mostly unpainted to reduce mass. Painting the entire shell of a spacecraft can add a significant amount of mass, enough that the delta-v of the spacecraft will be negatively.

Concept Crew Acceleration	Crew Acceleration
Concept Crew Acceleration Subject	Spacecraft Engineering
Concept Crew Acceleration Description
	Humans tend to suffer permanent damage at around 9 g's, assuming they have high-g training and suitable high-g crash couches. Crash couches are seats designed to allow the user to undergo extremely high accelerations and survive. Capital ships are not equipped with anything of that sort, since that high of acceleration will likely never be achieved through engine thrust. Achieving even 1 g of acceleration from thrust alone is impressive, given the technologies and masses involved. A more realistic acceleration for capital ships is closer to one tenth of a g.
	Extremely high accelerations will only occur from significant damage, such as from a massive collision that sends the ship spinning like a top. One way to alleviate having your crew get splattered when a capital ship does suffer high accelerations is to keep the crew compartment near the center of mass of the ship, since the centripetal acceleration is proportional to distance to the center of mass.

Concept Cold Welding	Cold Welding
Concept Cold Welding Subject	Spacecraft Engineering
Concept Cold Welding Description
	In space, in the absence of an atmosphere, two objects of the same material can be welding together via simple pressure, at low temperatures. This is because in atmosphere, the same two objects will oxidize, developing a thin layer of rust, which prevents cold welding.
	In space, this can be a problem, as objects can fuse together unexpectedly, such as with the breech and the barrel of a conventional cannon. Thus, all objects which come in contact with one another that need to stay apart need to be made out of different materials.

Concept Diffraction	Diffraction
Concept Diffraction Subject	Spacecraft Engineering
Concept Diffraction Description
	Diffraction is a fundamental property of light, and has significant consequences for all telescopes and lasers. Whenever light passes through a slit, it radiates its energy apart, weakening severely with distance. Diffraction worsens with longer wavelengths and smaller slit sizes.
	For lasers, diffraction is the most important factor affecting laser range. To counteract diffraction, wide exit apertures and short laser wavelengths are used. This is why frequency doublers are often employed by lasers. Doublers reduce the power of the laser at the expense of a shorter wavelength.
	For telescopes and sensors, this creates an ultimate limit at which a telescope or sensor can detect. After a certain distance, the single pixel resolution of a sensor is fundamentally limited. This is referred to being diffraction limited.

Concept Ammo	Ammo
Concept Ammo Subject	Spacecraft Engineering
Concept Ammo Description
	An ammo compartment is a module which supplies ammo to a weapon. Many weapons can have attached ammo bays, and thus do not necessarily need such a compartment, although they still can use them for additional ammo. For carrier modules, which launch large payloads, attached ammo bays often are not viable, and so ammo modules are used.
	Ammo compartments can be much more heavily armored, for example, if explosions are a concern when the ammo compartment is punctured.

Concept Radiator	Radiator
Concept Radiator Subject	Spacecraft Engineering
Concept Radiator Description
	Spacecrafts require large heat radiators to eliminate waste heat generated from their powerplants, crew modules, and weapons (although weapons with barrels like railguns, coilguns, and conventional guns use radiative cooling off of their barrel and have no need for radiators). This is because there is no atmosphere, thus no convective cooling is possible.
	Radiators are the long, multi-segment panels that extend perpendicular to the craft, and they generally glow, depending on their inlet coolant temperature. Most engines do not need radiators because they rely on both regenerative cooling (passing the cryogenic propellant through the engine first before expelling it) and radiative cooling from the nozzle.
	All the heat of a spacecraft can't be pumped through a single radiator due to thermodynamics. Heat travels from hot to cold, and every module operates at different temperatures. If two modules, one hot, and one cold, used the same radiator, the cold module would heat up to the temperature of the hot one, and would operate incorrectly, likely melting. Additionally, radiators can't dynamically switching between two systems because of the significant thermal inertia of the radiators, and the extreme temperature ranges required would required abnormally low thermal expansion coefficents for the materials used. Thus, the easiest solution is to have a different set of radiators for each module. Peltier machines could theoretically solve these difficulties, but again, they are expensive, require lots of power, and not worth the effort compared to the simple solution of using many different kinds of radiators.
	Radiators can be easily armored by applying a greater material thickness beyond the coolant pipes' thickness. This negatively affects the heat transfer coefficient of the radiator, and thus the overall efficiency, but it is still much more preferable to having flimsy radiators which get shot off immediately.

Concept Railgun	Railgun
Concept Railgun Subject	Spacecraft Engineering
Concept Railgun Description
	A railgun is an electrical projectile weapon which consists of two rails and a sliding armature (or projectile) between them. It can accelerate electrically conductive projectiles to very high velocities compared to conventional cannons.
	The railgun is fired by passing electrical current through one rail, through the armature, and into the second rail. This creates a current loop, and subsequently a magnetic field. This then generates a Lorentz Force which accelerates the projectile along the rails. As long as the armature stays in contact with the rails, the railgun will continue accelerating the armature, although the resistance will increase as the armature gets further along the rails.
	Compared to conventional guns, railguns offer much higher velocities, and do not require explosive ammunition. Conversely, they require tremendous amounts of power that conventional guns do not. Railguns also suffer from problems of excessive ablation of both the rails and the armature, as they slide against each other at extremely high velocities and temperatures.

Concept Coilgun	Coilgun
Concept Coilgun Subject	Spacecraft Engineering
Concept Coilgun Description
	Also known as a Gauss Gun, and not to be mistake for a railgun, a coilgun is a magnetic projectile weapon which consists of a series of electrical coils which launch a magnetic projectile through those coils.
	The coilgun is fired by passing current through each coil, or solenoid. This current generates a magnetic field which accelerates any ferromagnetic object inside the coil. Then the magnetic armature is accelerated through one coil, at which point the coil is turned off and the next coil, or stage, is turned on. This happens until the armature has been accelerated through every single stage and exits the weapon.
	Compared to conventional guns, coilguns offer much higher exit velocities, and the ammunition does not have to be explosive. However, coilguns require much more power and expensive magnetic ammunition.
	Additionally, coilguns suffer from magnetic saturation of the ammunition, where the projectile can become overmagnetized, and behaves paramagmetically rather than ferromagnetically. This means that at a certain point, the projectile fails to accelerate. This can generally only be resolved by using larger and larger projectiles.

Concept Laser	Laser
Concept Laser Subject	Spacecraft Engineering
Concept Laser Description
	A Laser, an acronym for Light Amplication by Stimulated Emission of Radiation, is a tool for generating a spectrally and spatially coherent beam of light. This means the light is a single wavelength (mostly) and going in a single direction (mostly). This allows it to be focused to a point, inflicting damage.
	The lasers used are arclamp pumped solid state lasers. Solid state lasers are used because they do not require a gas that needs to be expended like ammunition, unlike chemical lasers. They alse do not require supersonic combustion such as in a gas dynamic laser. Finally, solid state lasers use a solid lasing medium, which is simple to use, manufacture, and maintain in space.
	The arclamp is a tube of gas which has electricity pumped through it to generate incoherent light. The light is bounced around an elliptical cavity until it is absorbed by the lasing crystal rod.
	The lasing rod uses stimulated emission to re-amplify the light of a wavelength specific to the material used. Stimulated emission is the process by which a single photon strikes an excited atom, and causes that atom to de-excite, replacing it with two photons of equal wavelength going in the exact same direction. Thus, the arclamp light strikes the lasing crystal, causing it to get excited, and light of the proper wavelength hits the excited crystal atoms, generating more coherent light.
	This process repeats as the light bounces from one end of the lasing crystal to the other, between the mirror at one end and the output coupler at the other, very rapidly building up energy in the form of a continuous packet of spectrally coherent light.
	The output coupler releases the light packet, after which it can pass through further optics, like a frequency doubling crystal, until it reaches the laser exit aperture to be fired at the target.
	Compared to projectile weapons, laser weapons tend to be much more accurate, but require lots of power, and their damage potential falls off very rapidly due to Diffraction.

Concept Conventional Gun	Conventional Gun
Concept Conventional Gun Subject	Spacecraft Engineering
Concept Conventional Gun Description
	A conventional gun, or cannon, is a weapon consisting of a (often metal) tube and solid propellant at one end which accelerates a projectile through the tube. It is a cheap projectile launcher and requires effectively no power to fire. On the downside, the ammunition is explosive, and the exit velocities are low compared to most other projectile weapons.
	A cannon works by detonating the explosive propellant. Upon combustion, the explosive material turns into gas, creating immense pressure inside the tube, which propels the projectile down the barrel. The greater the pressure of the explosion, the faster the projectile will be launched, but greater pressure requires stronger barrels, lest the barrel rupture.
	Conventional guns, in addition to having low exit velocities, tend to be extremely inefficient, more so if the propellant is still burning by the time the projectile exits the barrel. Their exit velocities tend to be limited to below 2 km/s.

Concept Carrier	Carrier
Concept Carrier Subject	Spacecraft Engineering
Concept Carrier Description
	Carrier bays are electromagnetic accelerators which are made for launching large objects at low speeds, ideal for launching drones, missiles, flares, or anything that does not require aiming. They consist of a linear induction motor which attaches to the payload and accelerates along a fixed magnetic track.
	Carrier bays have the advantage of being mostly internal, allowing only the front armored plate to be visible and targetable by enemies, and they also do not require tremendous electrical power to launch. They also require no additional propellant to launch which makes them better than cannons at launching unaimed payloads.
	In contrast to blast launchers, though carrier bays are more expensive and require power, they can feed internal modules and are not extremely volatile. If a carrier bay is disabled, it generally won't explode unless its ammo bay is hit.

Concept Blast Launcher	Blast Launcher
Concept Blast Launcher Subject	Spacecraft Engineering
Concept Blast Launcher Description
	Blast Launchers are similar to carrier bays, but use explosive bolts to launch payloads instead of an electromagnetic launcher. This restricts it to a one-use launching system mounted to the external armor, rather than an internal feed system.
	The primary advantage they serve over carrier bays is no power or radiators are necessary, and they can launch everything with no reload time. This makes them ideal as cheap one-off launchers. On the other hand, they are one-use and can't feed in ammo from an internal bay. Their greatest disadvantage is their volatility. If the armor is penetrated, the launcher's explosive bolts will explode, and this can often be powerful enough to disable the entire spacecraft. This makes extremely thick armor a necessity for this module to be feasible.
	It should also be noted that payloads are launched vertically, which has subtle implications on the cross section of the launched payload. For instance, a laser targeting a vertically launched missile may have a target on the missile body rather than the sloped nose of the missile, making it easier to disable the missile. Of course, this depends on the orientation of the launching ship relative to the enemy ship.

Concept Nuclear Thermal Rocket	Nuclear Thermal Rocket
Concept Nuclear Thermal Rocket Subject	Spacecraft Engineering
Concept Nuclear Thermal Rocket Description
	A nuclear thermal rocket (NTR) is essentially a nuclear reactor with a rocket nozzle attached to the end of it. The nuclear reactor, which doubles as the combustion chamber, has coolant pumped through it. The reactor heats up the coolant and then expels it through the nozzle.
	This rocket tends to yield much higher exhaust velocities than combustion rockets. This is because the chamber temperature is limited only by the melting points of the reactor materials, and the coolant can have much lower molecular weights than combustion rocket propellants.
	A significant disadvantage of nuclear thermal rockets is that they dump enormous amounts of neutron radiation (both fast and thermal), which need to be dealt with before it hits the crew modules. They also tend to be expensive, as fissiles usually are.
	However, with that in mind, nuclear thermal rockets generate the most rocket power compared to all other rocket engine types. Only combustion rockets come close.
	The high power of nuclear rockets is derived directly from nuclear fission, and the power is completely unfiltered through power generation of any sort. This means that no radiators are needed since all the heat is expelled through exhaust, radiative cooling, or regenerative cooling.
	It has fairly high thrust for capital ships, good for dodging and getting around the solar system. It also has decently high exhaust velocity. This makes it a good drive which is good at everything, but excels at nothing.

Concept Combustion Rocket	Combustion Rocket
Concept Combustion Rocket Subject	Spacecraft Engineering
Concept Combustion Rocket Description
	A combustion rocket is one of the simplest kinds of thermal rocket. It involves a monopropellant or bipropellant (tripropellants can be used, but are often not worth the complexity), and these propellants are ignited inside the combustion chamber. The hot gases are then expelled out the nozzle to produce thrust. They become transonic in the rocket's throat, and then supersonic in the nozzle.
	As with any thermal rocket, the temperature is the most important factor determining exhaust velocity, followed by the combusting gases molecular weight. Smaller molecular weights yield faster exhaust. Generally speaking, both of these are governed by the type of combustion reaction used.
	Rocket engines require no radiators to cool as the engine nozzles themselves act as radiators. They can also use regenerative cooling, where the cold propellant is pumped through thin tubes outside the nozzle before being injected into the rocket and ignited.
	Bipropellants have an additional option to vary the stoichiometric mixture ratio of the exhaust. Although a mixture ratio of 1:1 will always yield the highest temperature, a different ratio may yield better results. For example, in a hydrogen-oxygen reaction (LH2 LOX), the hydrogen has a much lower molecular weight. Thus, a ratio which is fuel-rich (greater hydrogen to oxygen ratio) will have a lower average molecular weight of the final exhaust products. Although the temperature will be lower, the molecular weight will be lower as well, which may yield a higher exhaust velocity.
	Alternatively, changing the ratio may require smaller propellant tanks. In the above example, a ratio which is oxygen-rich instead will require more oxygen than hydrogen. Since oxygen is much denser than hydrogen, will require much smaller propellant tanks to operate with. Thus, despite the reduction in exhaust velocity, the final mass ratio of the spacecraft will benefit, which may ultimately yield a better final delta-v for the spacecraft compared to a 1:1 ratio.
	Combustion rockets have the highest thrust of all drives, but the lowest exhaust velocity. It is best suited for drones and missiles, where thrust and acceleration are most important.
	Look into Bipropellants for more information.

Concept Resistojet	Resistojet
Concept Resistojet Subject	Spacecraft Engineering
Concept Resistojet Description
	A resistojet is a thermal rocket which uses a simple resistor to heat up the propellant rather than a chemical or nuclear reaction. This makes the design extremely simple, involving a simple resistor coil inside the combustion chamber, in addition to the throat-nozzle system, and the turbopump getting the propellant into the chamber.
	The greatest disadvantage of a resistojet is that it requires an external power supply, something that a nuclear thermal rocket or combustion rocket do not need.
	Generally, to be competetive with the aforementioned rockets, resistojets need a nuclear reactor to power them (doing so is termed a nuclear electric rocket). A nuclear electric powered resistojet is usually much less efficient than a nuclear thermal rocket, because the heat from the nuclear thermal rocket is directly converted to exhaust energy, whereas a nuclear electric rocket gets its power after several stages, with each stage reducing the efficiency along the way.
	However, nuclear powered electric resistojets have a significant advantage over nuclear thermal rockets, and that's temperature. A resistojet's temperature is limited only by the melting point of the coil. A nuclear thermal rocket's chamber temperature is limited by all the elements inside all the nuclear reactor, the fuel elements, the control rods, etc. As temperature is one of the most important factor influencing exhaust velocity, resistojets can have better exhaust velocities than nuclear thermal rockets.
	A final advantage of resistojets over nuclear thermal rockets is that they do not spew neutron radiation everywhere, which makes them very suitable for use as vernier thrusters and retrojets, which are thrusters on the sides and front of a ship used for turning.
	The main disadvantage resistojets have is their power must be electric, likely derived from a nuclear reactor. The drop in efficiency from the nuclear reactor to electric power, and then to the resistojet, is enormous.
	Overall, they tend to have much lower thrust than a comparable nuclear thermal rocket, and slightly higher exhaust velocities.

Concept Magnetoplasmadynamic Thruster	Magnetoplasmadynamic Thruster
Concept Magnetoplasmadynamic Thruster Subject	Spacecraft Engineering
Concept Magnetoplasmadynamic Thruster Description
	A magnetoplasmadynamic (MPD) thruster is a type of ion thruster, one with the highest thrust of all known ion thruster designs. Ion thrusters function very differently from thermal rockets such as the combustion rocket or resistojet. A thermal rocket generates its exhaust velocity by superheating the propellant and then expanding the propellant through a supersonic nozzle. An ion thruster instead uses electrostatic or electromagnetic force to accelerate ions.
	The MPD thruster functions very similarly to a railgun, with one rail being in the center of the drive, the cathode, and the other rail being extruded into a ring around the center, the anode. A gas is pumped via a turbopump into the MPD thruster, and a current is run from the cathode, through the propellant gas, back through the anode. Using the Lorentz force, the same force that propels a railgun armature, the propellant gas (once ionized) is accelerated along the length of the thruster until it is expelled from the thruster.
	Unlike a railgun, a longer thruster length does not necessarily make for a faster exhaust velocity. This is because the gas flow is constant rather than discrete like a railgun, and the arc passes through only the base of the flow, rather than the end. As a result, MPD thrusters tend to be very short.
	The propellant needs to be ionized first to be accelerated, and if the propellant is a molecule (like diatomic H2, hydrogen gas) rather than a single atom (like He, helium gas), the molecule needs to be dissociated (i.e. ripped apart) before it can be ionized. Thus, molecules require much more power and tend to be much less efficient. As a result, monatomic noble gases tend to be the ideal propellant to use.
	MPD thrusters, like all ion thrusters, tend to have extremely high exhaust velocities and very low thrusts. Since these two attributes are inversely correlated for identical power sources ion thrusters tend to be optimized instead for low exhaust velocities to yield high thrusts.
	This generally invalidates the whole reason for using ion thrusters in the first place. As a result, ion thrusters tend not to be useful for any combat ships. The thrust and acceleration is too low to allow dodging in combat. Also, it takes an extremely long time to get anywhere with accelerations that low.

Concept Propellant Tank	Propellant Tank
Concept Propellant Tank Subject	Spacecraft Engineering
Concept Propellant Tank Description
	Propellant tanks are often one of the most important aspects of spacecraft, and often the most overlooked part of them. Except for armor, the propellant tank shell is often the most massive part of any spacecraft, which means the propellant tank shell is one of the primary things that yields a lower mass ratio, and thus, a lower delta-v. In fact, the propellant tank shell mass divided by the propellant mass inside the tank yields the ultimate mass ratio that a ship can achieve, asymptotically approaching this mass ratio but never exceeding it. This means the propellant tank itself yields an ultimate limit to the actual delta-v that any spacecraft can have. In any ship without armor, such as in a tanker, this limit appears very quickly, as it becomes apparent that adding on more and more propellant tanks yields little to no gain in mass ratio.
	A second consideration for propellant tanks is the propellant density itself. A high density propellant is very small, and is ideal, whereas a low density propellant causes the ship to balloon in size, yielding larger propellant tanks, and thus a larger and heavier armor shell, and finally, makes the ship a much bigger target for enemies to hit. This is the primary disadvantage to hydrogen propellant in nuclear thermal rockets. Although it beats out every other propellant in terms of exhaust velocity, its extremely low density yields ships which need to be many times bigger than when using any other propellant. Generally, propellant exhaust velocity in a nuclear thermal rocket is inversely proportional to density, which means there is no propellant which ideally maximizes both properties.
	Propellant tanks are slightly pressurized, and use a series of screens that, through the force of surface tension, allow the propellant to exit the tank and be used in their entirity in zero gravity. This removes the need for a ullage thrusters or any pressurized diaphragm for getting all the propellant out.
	Propellants, especially hydrogen, experience a slight amount of boiloff, and leakage, from the tank over time, but this is accounted for in any long term trip, and you do not need to design around that consideration.

Concept Crew	Crew
Concept Crew Subject	Spacecraft Engineering
Concept Crew Description
	A crew is necessary for a spacecraft to be controlled and receive orders. Without a crew module, and with only a remote control, the spacecraft is essentially a drone, and is not feasible to use for long term journeys through space. Thus, the key thing that delineates capital ships from other crafts is a crew, and only capital ships may be used to start a mission. All drones must be launched from capital ships once a mission has started.
	The crew uses a water recirculation system for sewage and water supply both. However, food and oxygen are both stored for the duration of the mission, which is generally taken to be 6 months long. Obviously some missions take longer, and some are much shorter, but under 6 months works out as a reasonable average for a crew to go without docking at a space station.
	The air used is 22% oxygen, and the rest is mostly nitrogen, in order to maintain one atmosphere of pressure, and, more importantly, to prevent fires from becoming as deadly as they are in a pure-oxygen environment. Crew members operate without a space suit inside the crew module, and so the crew module is often lost when the hull of the module is breached.
	Crew modules generate a small amount of heat from the lighting system, the galley cooking system, and the heat emitted by each crew member, which needs to be dissipated through the radiators at a very low temperature. This low temperature often requires much larger radiators than what would be expected for such a small amount of heat.
	Spacecraft crews are run as skeleton crews always. Crew compartments, when food and air is accounted for, are quite massive and volumous. As a result, crews are generally kept extremely small even for the largest capital ships. Each crew is tiny compared to an 21st century earth-based naval ship of comparable size, a small group of highly trained individuals who often can perform multiple jobs in the case of crew member death.
	Modern spacecraft crews are very similar in nature to nuclear submarine crews of old earth, with space being a premium, and the crew complement living in extremely cramped quarters, just big enough to do their jobs in, with enlisted men and women hotbunking to further save space on living quarters.
	Crew members live 18 hour days, with 6 hours on watch, and twelve hours off watch generally. Between the three watches, meals are served for the entire crew. When a spacecraft enters battle or a port, all crew members man their stations.

Concept Remote Control	Remote Control
Concept Remote Control Subject	Spacecraft Engineering
Concept Remote Control Description
	A remote control is necessary for any drone or missile to be able to give that spacecraft orders once it is in flight. It also includes the sensor suite necessary for that spacecraft to be able to home in on heat signatures, as missiles generally do. All power needed is generated by a small internal battery, and thus, no external power source is needed, which is why missiles generally don't need power generators to function.
	For details on how homing behaviors are controlled by the remote control, see the article on Missile Guidance.

Concept Fuse	Fuse
Concept Fuse Subject	Spacecraft Engineering
Concept Fuse Description
	A fuse is the simplest command module, which simply fires all engines after a time limit, as well as optionally detonates all payloads after a time limit. It does not perform any sensing, guidance, or navigation.

Concept Missile Guidance	Missile Guidance
Concept Missile Guidance Subject	Spacecraft Engineering
Concept Missile Guidance Description
	Guiding a missile is a complex problem with no ideal solution. Homing behaviors controllable by a remote control are as follows.
	Unguided - The missile will not thrust.
	Pure Pursuit - The missile will try to go straight for the target.
	Deviated Pursuit - The target's future position is estimated, and the missile will go straight for the future position. Basic leading of the target.
	Proportional Navigation - The missile will burn to reduce the perpendicular motion relative to the target.
	Augmented Proportional Navigation - This does Proportional Navigation, but will also try to anticipate enemy dodging.
	If you have infinite delta-v and perfect thrusting without rotation, these algorithms will work fine. However, you do not have delta-v, so guidance is split into three phases.
	Boost Phase - An initial burn to accelerate the missile to reasonable speeds. Also, guidance corrections made need to be done if the enemy is flying highly perpendicular to your missile.
	Midcourse Phase - A state where the missile coasts towards the target to save delta-v. Potentially, guidance corrections may need to be made in this phase. Of course, if too many corrections are made, delta-v may be used up, and the missile will fail. The primary reason missiles lose their delta-v before contact is because they made too many corrections during the midcourse phase. On the other hand, against enemy missiles, the midcourse phase is the best time to try to dodge.
	Terminal Phase - Once the missile determines it has enough delta-v to burn all the way to the target, it enters terminal phase, and usually uses all of its delta-v up.
	Also, you will rarely have perfect thrusting without rotation. Gimballed engines, for instance, require the missile to rotate to work. This can render all these algorithms useless, (Augmented) Proportional Navigation especially. Thus, damping of each stage is used to prevent the missile from fully implementing the algorithm.

Concept Cargo Bay	Cargo Bay
Concept Cargo Bay Subject	Spacecraft Engineering
Concept Cargo Bay Description
	Cargo are goods and miscellaneous material that needs to be transported across the solar system, anything from electronics, to ore, to nuclear waste, to food, to frozen air, water, methane, hydrogen, and so on. They have no specific combat value other than being sometimes explicitly necessary to objectives.

Concept Radiation Shield	Radiation Shield
Concept Radiation Shield Subject	Spacecraft Engineering
Concept Radiation Shield Description
	A radiation shield is a simple piece of flat material designed to protect human beings from radiation damage, generally from the nuclear reactors or nuclear thermal rockets. It protects against both fast and thermal neutron radiation from nuclear reactors, as well as gamma radiation from radioisotope generators and solar storms.
	Gamma radiation protection is often easily done, generally with a material which is optically opaque at gamma wavelengths. Neutron radiation protection, on the other hand, is much more difficult, especially since nuclear reactors generate an absurd amount of fast and thermal neutron radiation. Neutron radiation is attenuated by elements with high neutron absorption cross sections. Anything that can scatter neutrons elastically or inelastically, or interact with fast or thermal neutrons in any way will protect against the radiation.
	The other effective way to attenuate radiation is through distance. This is one reason for the cylindrical shape of spacecrafts: it allows all radiation production systems, such as reactors and nuclear engines, to be placed at one end, and the crew modules at the other end of the spacecraft. Most spacecrafts use a combination of distance and radiation shields.
	Since a radiation shield is little more than a flat plate of material, it can be used as an armor plate as well.

Concept Refueler	Refueler
Concept Refueler Subject	Spacecraft Engineering
Concept Refueler Description
	A refueler is a simple turbopump with a hose attached that can reach to other spacecrafts in the nearby vicinity. The process is similar to atmospheric refueling, but in space, the process involves no air resistance, and thus all maneuvering of the boom to the refueling craft can be solved with a nondeterministic solver. The hose generally should be a material with a very low Young's Modulus, and can withstand the cryogenic temperatures of the propellant being transferred, as well as having very low leakage of the propellant.

Concept Flare	Flare
Concept Flare Subject	Spacecraft Engineering
Concept Flare Description
	A flare is a pyrotechnic composition designed to generate a tremendous amount of heat as a countermeausere. If a flare can generate more heat than a ship's radiators, heat seeking missiles will be attracted to the flare instead of the ship's radiators.
	The pyrotechnic composition is a delay composition, or some material which slows down the combustion reaction, combined with an actual explosive material. A slower reaction allows the flare to burn for a longer amount of time, but a slower burn rate means the flare will generate less heat, which is a tough balance to strike.
	Generally, spacecrafts with nuclear reactors put out a tremendous amount of heat, which means each flare must be extremely large (compared to flares used by 21st century terrestrial aircraft), and so launching such flares at high speeds is a challenge in of itself. A slow moving flare is often rather ineffective, because a nuclear missile that chases such a flare will often detonate with a significant area of effect, and a slow moving flare will likely have not moved far enough away from its parent spacecraft to get its parent spacecraft out of the area of effect.

Concept Explosive	Explosive
Concept Explosive Subject	Spacecraft Engineering
Concept Explosive Description
	An explosive module is a composition of combustable materials which will detonate with a proximity fuse, causing high temperature gas to expand rapidly. In atmosphere, explosives are much more effective due to the shockwave that forms when the expanding gases collide with the atmospheric gases. In space, however, the explosive gas simply expands omnidirectionally without resistance, quickly losing temperature and ineffectually bombarding anything nearby with a thin coating of cooling gas, inflicting very little damage.
	As a result, in space, explosive modules usually has a layer of material on the outside of the module, to generate a cloud of shrapnel when it detonates. The explosive is formed in a cylinder with the shrapnel material wrapped around the cylinder, rather than a sphere, because the shrapnel will expand in two dimensions rather than three. This means as the shrapnel expands, the hit probability reduces by a factor of a square rather than a cube. Additionally, an explosive payload detonating in a sphere would have some of the shrapnel detonate backwards, thus slowing down, becoming less effective at inflicting damage (although some would detonate forwards, increasing damage), whereas a cylindrically detonating explosive will not affect the detonating shrapnel's forward velocity in any way.

Concept Nuclear Payload	Nuclear Ordnance
Concept Nuclear Payload Subject	Spacecraft Engineering
Concept Nuclear Payload Description
	A nuclear ordnance is a device which detonates, triggering nuclear fission within its fissile core. The fission generates a tremendous amount of heat energy, which yields an enormous amount of high energy photons. The types of nuclear ordnance used by our space forces are implosion fission devices and boosted implosion fission devices. Gun type fission devices and thermonuclear devices are not used by our space force.
	The implosion fission design involves a core of fissile material (potentially hollow to prevent it going supercritical when it's assembled) surrounded by high explosives. The high explosives are oriented in an explosive lens to properly collapse the fissile core in a uniform manner within nanoseconds. This increase of density of the core causes the core to exceed a critical density, which causes the device to undergo nuclear fission. The device can be boosted with a fusile core, where fusiles are inserted into the hollowed out core. These fusiles undergo fusion, but it's generally not significant enough compared to the fission, thus the device is still considered a fission weapon rather than a fusion weapon. The fusiles, while undergoing fusion, release significant amounts of neutrons which make the initial fission reaction much more efficient than a simple implosion device.
	Nuclear weapons are a lot less effective in space than in atmosphere. In atmosphere, the high energy photons are immediately absorbed by the air, and manifest as an intense fireball and shockwave.
	In space, there is no atmosphere, so a nuclear explosion becomes nothing more than a powerful flash bulb. The photons simply flash againt the target and inflict damage by melting and vaporizing the armor. Although tremendously inefficient in space, nuclear weapons, especially boosted fission weapons, tend to compensate for that simply in terms of raw energy.

Concept Radioisotope Thermoelectric Generator	Radioisotope Thermoelectric Generator
Concept Radioisotope Thermoelectric Generator Subject	Spacecraft Engineering
Concept Radioisotope Thermoelectric Generator Description
	A Radioisotope Thermoelectric Generator (RTG) is a way to generate a small amount of power not through fission, but through radioactive decay. A radioactive fuel pellet is attached to a thermocouple, which converts a heat gradient into electrical power, and then at the exit of the thermcouple, coolant flows past, which carries the heat away to the radiators. The efficiency is derived completely from the thermocouple's efficiency, which is derived from the P and N type thermocouple material's thermoelectric sensitivity differences, and the total temperature delta across the thermocouple.
	If the radioactive material generates gamma radiation, that radiation needs to be stopped before it can reach any crew compartment, although alpha and beta radiation can be stopped without concern.
	Generally, the more energy the radioactive material generates, the faster it will decay, which requires more material to be used to provide an expected amount of power over a long journey through space. This kind of generator is popular for drones which do not require large amounts of power, as it is extremely small compared to most nuclear reactors.

Concept Thermoelectric Fission Reactor	Thermoelectric Fission Reactor
Concept Thermoelectric Fission Reactor Subject	Spacecraft Engineering
Concept Thermoelectric Fission Reactor Description
	A thermoelectric fission reactor is a nuclear reactor which generates heat through fission, and derives power from that heat through a thermocouple. The heated coolant is passed along on side of the thermocouple, and the coolant on the other side of the thermocouple draws the heat away to the radiators. The efficiency of the device relies on the thermocouple's efficiency, which depends on the P and N type materials, as well as the temperature delta across the thermocouple.
	As with any nuclear reactor, there is basically no practical upward limit to the amount of heat that a nuclear reactor can generate, and a reactor with a short lifetime can have that lifetime easily extended by simply adding a little more nuclear fuel. Generally, the heat a reactor can generate is limited by the melting points of all of the materials within the reactor core. For more information, look into Nuclear Reactors.

Concept Turboelectric Fission Reactor	Turboelectric Fission Reactor
Concept Turboelectric Fission Reactor Subject	Spacecraft Engineering
Concept Turboelectric Fission Reactor Description
	A turboelectric fission reactor is a nuclear reactor which generates heat through fission, and derives power from that heat through a turbine (via the Closed Brayton Cycle). The heated coolant is passed through the turbine, then through the radiators to cool down, and then back through the turbopump to be pumped back into the reactor core. No separate coolant loop with a heat exchanger is used, as that is inefficient, and if the coolant loop is broken, leaking radioactive coolant into space is hardly a concern (compared to being a serious problem if such a system were to leak in an atmosphere).
	The efficiency of the system comes down entirely to the turbine's efficiency, and how easily it can extract energy from the coolant. Unlike thermocouples, it does in fact convert heat into energy (rather than converting a heat gradient into energy), although it is only so efficient, meaning it still requires lots of heat radiators all the same to keep operating. For more information, look into Nuclear Reactors.

Concept Material Properties : Mechanical	Material Properties : Mechanical
Concept Material Properties : Mechanical Subject	Spacecraft Engineering
Concept Material Properties : Mechanical Description
	Yield Strength: Also known as the Offset Strength, this property is the total amount of stress that a material can withstand and still elastically return to its original shape. Stress applied on a material beyond this point will cause the material to permanently deform, while stress before this point will deform the material only as long as the stress is continuous applied. This property is extremely important, as it determines the maximum amount of stress many modules and systems can undergo before they become useless. For example, a gun barrel that permanently deforms under the stress of firing becomes unusable, but if the deformation disappears once the firing stress stops, the barrel remains usable and can fire again. Thus, for gun barrel stress, the Yield Strength is the most important mechanical property. The Yield Strength has applications everywhere in spacecraft design.
	Ultimate Tensile Strength: Also known as the Tensile Strength or the Ultimate Strength, is the total amount of stress a material can withstand before it fractures, or shatters. This is also a very important property of any material, and always equals or exceeds the Yield Strength, meaning materials initially deform reversibly under stress, then at higher stresses deform permanently, and then at even higher stresses, crack. For example, armor can elastically deform under kinetic stress and still be viable (at reduced effectiveness). On the other hand, once the stress exceeds the Ultimate Tensile Stress, the material cracks, and becomes useless as armor. Many ceramics have an equal Yield Strength and Ultimate Tensile Stress, meaning the material does not undergo permanent deformation, and instead immediately shatters at that stress point.
	Young's Modulus: Also known as the elastic modulus, or tensile modulus, the Young's Modulus is a measure of stiffness of a material, or how resistant the material is to deformation. It has nothing to do with the strength of a material, as strength deals with the amount of stress the material can withstand before it's behavior changes, while Young's Modulus is a measure of *what* happens to the material when stress is applied. A material with a high Young's Modulus (like Diamond) will deform minimally when stress is applied, while a material with a low Young's Modulus (like Rubber) will deform significantly under the same amount of stress. One application of Young's Modulus is thermal expansion stress. When a material undergoes a temperature delta, it expands or contracts, causing mechanical stresses throughout the material. A material with a low Young's Modulus, thus a low stiffness (high elasticity), will suffer less stress because it can more easily expand or contract. This has significant applications in rocket engines, railguns, and nuclear reactor thermocouples, where high temperature differences are found.
	Shear Modulus: Also known as the modulus of rigidity, the Shear Modulus is identical to Young's Modulus except it measures the material response to shear stress rather than uniaxial stress. Thus, it is a measure of rigidity of a material, or the materials ability to withstand shearing, or stress parallel to the material cross section. One application of the Shear Modulus is the shearing that occurs at fluid boundary layers between a fluid and a solid, such as in a coolant pipe, or in a rocket engine.
	Bulk Modulus: This property is identical to the Young's Modulus, except it measures response uniform pressure on a material. Thus, it is a measure of resistance to compression. It is most important in fluid dynamics again, as it measures how much a fluidic material will compress based on the pressure on the fluid. It is important whenever fluid is involved, such as with any coolant systems, nuclear turbines, or rocket engines.
	Poisson's Ratio: This property is the measure of how the material deforms axially versus transversely. For example, when a material is stretched in one direction, it may squeeze in the perpendicular directions, and vice versa. The degree of deformation is measured by the Poisson's Ratio, and it occurs in the fluid dynamics of pressurized coolant pipes.

Concept Material Properties : Thermal	Material Properties : Thermal
Concept Material Properties : Thermal Subject	Spacecraft Engineering
Concept Material Properties : Thermal Description
	Melting Point: This is the temperature at which the material turns from a liquid to a solid or vice versa at ambient space temperature and pressure. Many materials do not have a set melting point, and instead have a decomposition temperature, which is the temperature at which the material breaks apart (but not necessarily melts). In either case, this is the temperature that the material no longer is viable for being structural. This property is of crucial importance to armor against laser damage, and against everything that requires high temperature, such as nuclear reactors, rocket engines, and heat radiators.
	Boiling Point: This is the temperature at which the material turns from liquid to gas or vice versa at ambient space temperature and pressure. Most materials do not have a set boiling point at all, as most decompose long before then. The boiling point is important for any fluid dynamics systems, such as coolant systems, or turbines, but for most parts of a spacecraft (which are nearly all solid), this property is not used.
	Specific Heat: The specific heat capacity at constant pressure is a measure of how much energy is actually stored within a material per degree Kelvin of temperature and kilogram of mass. Thus, for two objects made of different materials but with the same temperature and the same mass, the Specific Heat measures how many Joules of energy each object actually has. A high specific heat capacity material can absorb tremendous amounts of energy and yield only minor temperature increases, while a low specific heat capacity material will become extremely hot with only minor increases of energy. This property is of critical importance in many different applications. For example, materials with a very high specific heat capacity can soak much more laser energy before it suffers damage. Objects that need to stay cool in the face of high energies, such as those in a rocket engine, similarly need a high heat capacity. On the other hand, heat radiators become much more effective at high temperatures, so materials with a very low specific heat capacity can become much more efficient at much lower masses.
	Thermal Conductivity: This important property measures how fast heat transfers across this material. A material with a high thermal conductivity conducts heat quickly, and heats up or cools down quickly based on the environment it's in. A material with a low thermal conductivity on the other hand, can retain its original temperature much longer regardless of the environment it's in. High thermal conductivity is very important for heat radiators, thermocouples, and any coolant materials. Low thermal conductivity is very important for insulator materials, such as those keeping in high temperatures found in rocket engines and nuclear reactors. It also is valuable for preventing laser damage from "bleeding" across armor.
	Thermal Expansion Coefficient: This coefficient is a measure of how much a material expands or contracts with temperature increases or decreases. A high thermal expansion coefficient means a material with expand greatly with minimal temperature increases, and contract greatly with minimal temperature drops. A low thermal expansion coefficient is very resistant to size changes, and requires much greater temperature jumps or drops to change significantly. A negative thermal expansion coefficent means the material contracts at higher temperatures, and expands at low temperatures, and is a very rare property. In most applications, a low thermal expansion coefficient is desired, as significant expansion causes significant thermal expansion stress. It is found anywhere on a spacecraft that temperature increases or decreases happen, from weapons fire, to rocket engine exhaust, to coolant pipes, to heat radiators, to powerplant thermocouples, to nuclear reactor cores, to laser heating damage.

Concept Material Properties : Electrical	Material Properties : Electrical
Concept Material Properties : Electrical Subject	Spacecraft Engineering
Concept Material Properties : Electrical Description
	Resistivity: This is a measure of how well the material resists electrical current. A very low value is desired for electrical conductors, such as those found in railguns, coilguns, and magnetoplasmadynamic thrusters, while a very high value is desired for electrical insulators, such as those found in those same systems, but for different elements of those systems.
	Conductivity: This is simply the inverse of the resistivity of a material. High conductivity yields a good electrical conductor, and low conductivity yields a good electrical insulator.
	Dielectric Strength: The dielectric strength, or breakdown voltage, of a material is the maximum voltage the material can withstand before it experience failure in the form of an electrical discharge. This value is primarily used when designing capacitors, which need to withstand very high voltages to provide with high capacitance.
	Thermomelectric Sensitivity: Also known as the Seebeck Coefficient, this property measures how much voltage the material produces based on the temperature difference across that material. It is how thermocouples work; as heat travels across a pair of materials with inverse thermolectric sensitivities, a voltage is generated based on the difference between the sensitivities, which is used to generate electrical power. It is of critical importance for all powerplants which use thermocouples to generate power.
	Relative Permittivity: Also known as the Dielectric Constant, it is a measure of the material's permittivity relative to vacuum. The permittivity of a material is the resistance the material experiences forming an electric field. It is most important for building capacitors.

Concept Material Properties : Magnetic	Material Properties : Magnetic
Concept Material Properties : Magnetic Subject	Spacecraft Engineering
Concept Material Properties : Magnetic Description
	Relative Permeability: Not to be confused with Relative Permittivity (which is an electrical property), this is the material's Permeability relative to vacuum. The permeability of a material is the measure of how easily it forms a magnetic field. It is the primary factor involving how powerful of a magnetic field you can get from a material, and is the most important property for coilgun projectiles and linear induction motor stators.
	Magnetic Susceptibility: The magnetic susceptibility of a material is closely related to the relative permeability, and measures how magnetized the material becomes in response to an applied magnetic field.
	Remanence: The remanence of a material is how much of a magnetization remains in a material when the external magnetic field is removed. It is used by linear induction motors, and any magnetic systems which do not actively generate a magnetic field.
	Saturation Magnetization: All materials, in the presence of a strong enough applied magnetic field, saturate, meaning their magnetic field can not be increased any further. This has significant consequences for coilguns, as saturated magnetic projectiles can not experience any greater acceleration.
	Magnetic Saturation Flux Density: The saturation flux density is a measure of the total magnetic field that is allowed from the saturation magnetization.

Concept Material Properties : Optical	Material Properties : Optical
Concept Material Properties : Optical Subject	Spacecraft Engineering
Concept Material Properties : Optical Description
	Refractive Index: The refractive index and extinction coefficient of a material are dimensionless quantities which describes how light propagate through that material. They are most useful for determining how reflective the material is, how transmissive the material is, and how absorptive the material is, which is directly equal to how emissive the material is as well. The reflectance and transmittance of materials are very important in laser cavities, for example. Mirrors need high reflectivity while lens need high transmissivity. Radiators, or at least radiator finishes, should have high emissivity for the wavelengths that they radiate primarily on. High reflectivity is created by having a large difference between refractive index and extinction coefficient, while simultaneously having a low value in each. High absorptivity is created solely through having a high extinction coefficient. High transmittivity is created by having both a low absorptivity and a low reflectivity.
	Emission Spectra: The emission spectra of a material is the wavelengths of light that are generated when the individual particles are excited, such as in a plasma, an electrical arc, or in a rocket exhaust plume. It is primarily used in laser arclamps, as it is the initial wavelengths that will initially pump an arclamp pumped laser. When choosing an excitation medium, one should try to line up emission spectra peaks up as closely as possible to the lasing medium pumping bands.
	Optical Lasing Damage Threshold: This measures how much photon power this material can withstand passing through it before suffering irreversible damage. It is of critical important to all optical materials in lasers, from lens, to mirrors, to any transparent media within.
	Nonlinearity Coefficient: This value is a measure of how well the material behaves as a nonlinear optic, specifically affecting the optic's nonlinear drive. Nonlinear optics are important because they allow frequency switching of lasers, allowing much high frequency (and thus lower wavelength) of lasers.
	External Angular Sensitivity: This value is also important only for nonlinear optics, as it measures affects the dephasing factor of a nonlinear optic crystal, and ultimately the overall efficiency when frequency switching lasers.
	Transition Wavelength: This is a property that only lasing media have, and it is the wavelength at which that material generates photons for stimulated emission and subsequent lasing. It is the wavelength at which photons will be emitted from the laser if the laser is not frequency switched.
	Pumping Bands: Also a lasing media property, these are the wavelengths at which the material can be pumped with photons to excite them, readying them for emission. The bands, when pumped with an arc lamp, should line up with the peaks of emission that the arc lamp excitation spectra for maximum efficiency.
	Transition Cross Section: This measures a lasing medium's atomic cross section for transitioning between energy levels. The transition between energy levels is what governs emission as well as absorption of photons.
	Spontaneous Lifetime: The spontaneous lifetime is how long a number of atoms will stay excited before a proportion of them decay, similar to radioactive half lives.
	Atomic Lasing Density: The atomic lasing density measures how many atoms exist per unit volume which can undergo absorption and emission in the lasing medium.

Concept Units	Units
Concept Units Subject	Spacecraft Engineering
Concept Units Description
	The units in use are all primarily SI units.
	The SI prefixes commonly used are as follows: T (10^12, Tera), G (10^9, Giga), M (10^6, Mega), k (10^3, Kilo), m (10^-3, Milli),  (10^-6, Micro), n (10^-9, Nano), p (10^-12, Pico). For example, a TW is a Terawatt, or 10^12 Watts, or 1 trillion Watts. 
	Meter (m) - Measure of distance, length, commonly seen as meters (m), centimeters (cm), and kilometers (km). AU are Astronomical Units, which are also used for very large distances.
	Second (s) - Measure of time. Meters per second is velocity, and meters per second squared is acceleration.
	Kilogram (kg) - Measure of mass. Technically, the gram (g) is the base unit, but kilogram is used as the default in terms of other units. The ton (t) is 1000 kilograms (and the kiloton, kt), and is commonly used for ship mass.
	Newton (N) - Measure of force, equal to a kilogram meter per second squared.
	Pascal (Pa) - Unit of pressure and stress, common in mechanical systems, equal to a Newton per meter squared. For example, material Yield Strength is often measured in Megapascals, MPa.
	Kelvin (K) - Unit of temperature, but not a measure of heat energy, since each material has a different temperature for the same amount of energy.
	Joule (J) - Unit of energy, equivalent to a Newton meter. Used in many places, such as a rough measure weaponry destructive ability, or heat energy in a system, since Kelvins are material dependent.
	Watt (W) - Unit of power, equal to a Joule per second, or energy measured over time. It is the unit which powerplants are based off of, and which spacecraft systems use. Another unit you may also say is We and Wt, which stands for Watt electric, and Watt thermal respectively. These are identical to Watts, but the subscript simply indicates what the power is used for or where it comes from.
	Ohm (Ohm) - Unit of electrical resistance, measuring how much the material or system resists electrical conduction. The inverse of it is the Siemen (S).
	Moles (mol) are a measure of the amount of a substance, an actual physical count of the number of atoms, or molecules of something. It is commonly used in chemical reactions.
	Sievert (Sv) - Unit of health effect of ionizing radiation on human beings. It is equal to effective Joules per kilogram, or the biological effect of energy absorbed per unit mass of human tissue. It is not equivalent to the Gray (Gy), which is the exact energy per unit mass. Different kinds of radiation have different effects on human biology, so the Sievert takes into account these differences in its units, which the Gray does not.
	Other Units - Ampere (A), Volt (V), Coulomb (C) are measures of electrical current, electrical potential, and electrical charge respectively. Barns (b) are measures of extremely tiny surface areas, used in atomic cross sections. Electron-Volts (eV) are units of energy, like Joules, equal to a Joule multiplied by the elementary charge. Many atomic and subatomic applications make more sense to speak of in terms of electron volts than Joules because of how small the energy scales are.

Concept Nuclear Reactors	Nuclear Reactors
Concept Nuclear Reactors Subject	Spacecraft Engineering
Concept Nuclear Reactors Description
	A nuclear reactor generates heat by way of nuclear fission, and the heated coolant is used to generate electricity in a powerplant, or the coolant is used as exhaust in a rocket engine.
	Nuclear fission is the process by which an atom splits into two different atoms, and is generally initiated by striking a fissile atom with a neutron (usually a thermal neutron, or a neutron moving at newtonian speeds, although fast neutrons, or neutron traveling near the speed of the light, can be used too, with reduced efficiency). When a fissile atom, such as Uranium-235 undergoes fission, it emits a number of fast neutrons and those neutrons strike nearby fissile atoms, causing a chain reaction, and the fission reaction becomes not only self-sustaining, but also self-escalating, increasing in power until stopped. This is the principle by which a nuclear device detonates, and it is the principle by which a nuclear reactor starts up. Once a reasonable level of power is sustained in a nuclear reactor, however, the reaction is stifled through various means in order to maintain a constant power output.
	In a nuclear reactor, unless it is a fast reactor, a neutron moderator is needed, in order to cause the fast neutrons to slow down to thermal speeds, becoming thermal neutrons, which allows them to trigger more fissions much more easily. The coolant can be used as a moderator, such as heavy water, as the coolant can help slow down the neutrons to thermal speeds, but it is not necessary, as a solid moderator, such as graphite, can be used instead. In a fast reactor, the chain reaction is sustained purely through fast fission neutron capture, which is much more difficult, and thus often requires highly enriched nuclear fuel.
	The enrichment of the fuel determines the ratio of fissile fuel to nonfissile fuel, such as the ratio of U-235 (which is fissile) to U-238 (which is depleted uranium, and has great difficulty undergoing fission, and usually is assumed unable to achieve fission). A higher enrichment obviously increases the neutron multiplication rate.
	In order to control the reactor, controls rods are used, which are neutron poisons, or materials which absorb neutrons, reducing the effectiveness of the chain reaction. These control rods are raised and lowered into the reactor in order to control the reaction criticality, which is the rate at which neutrons in the core increase or decrease. Thus, with the control rods removed, the core should be supercritical, or increasing in neutron amounts, and with all the control rods are inserted, the core should be subcritical, or decreasing in neutron amounts. This means the core can be powered on, sustained at a constant power, or powered off properly, simply by adding or removing the control rods.
	The criticality constant, or effective neutron multiplication factor, is controlled by six factors which are multiplied together, known as the six factor formula. A multiplication factor of 1 means in each neutron generation, the number of neutrons remains constant, or critical, and is used for sustaining power. If greater than 1, the neutrons are increasing with each generation, for powering on, and if it is less than 1, the neutrons are dying out with each generation, for powering off. The six factors are:
	Fast Neutron Non-Leakage - The probability that a fast neutron will not leak out of the core. It is controlled by the geometry of the reactor (larger reactors are able to control leakage much better), and by using core elements which can absorb fast neutrons better.
	Thermal Neutron Non-Leakage - The probability that a thermal neutron will not leak out of the core. It is controlled by the geometry again, and by the core element thermal neutron absorption cross sections.
	Reproduction Factor - Also called the Thermal Fission Factor, this is the number of neutrons produced by each fission on average. It varies based on what sort of fuel you use, and on how enriched your fuel is.
	Thermal Utilization Factor - The probability that a thermal neutron will be absorbed by the fuel rather than by any other core element. It varies based on how much fuel there is volumetrically compared to the rest of the core elements, and also how great of an absorption cross section the fuel has compared to the rest of the core elements.
	Resonance Escape Probability - This is the fraction of fast neutrons that manage to slow down to thermal speeds without being absorbed, and is directly affected by the effectiveness of your neutron moderator, which needs a very high resonance integral neutron cross section to work effectively.
	Fast Fission Factor - This is a factor which relates the total fissions to thermal fissions, and is also dependent on the resonance integral cross sections of all core elements.



Concept Ultimate Simulation Limitations	Ultimate Simulation Limitations
Concept Ultimate Simulation Limitations Description
	Children of a Dead Earth is a simulation of what near future space warfare and space travel would actually be like. It is a simulation, and involves a number of approximations for the sake of performance, simplicity, or relevance. This game is as close to reality as possible without sacrificing those three things, and no "handwavium" or "unknown futuristic devices" are implemented for the sake of gameplay, graphics, or story. This section has no relevance to gameplay, and is only intended to be read by those who understand the underlying equations and science of this game. Below are the inaccuracies and limitations of this simulation at simulating reality:
	- All materials are treated as being isotropic.
	- All material properties are temperature invariant. For materials where this is important, the less ideal values are always used. For instance, if an alloy will be used at very high temperatures and its tensile strength is significantly lower at those temperatures, that alloy is simply treated as having the lower tensile strength.
	- Nuclear device explosive lenses appear to be classified, and the author was unable to find proper equations for that part of nuclear weaponry, so the equations for it are fictional, but created to approximate actual real world data on nuclear weapons.
	- Nuclear reactors are all implemented using the homogenous reactor equation, rather than with the more accurate heterogenous reactor equations.
	- No spacecraft systems use the finite elements method to determine heating, stress, electromagnetic fields, etc., instead opting for steady state equations, except in the case of calculating weapon projectile exit velocities, and also in the case of determining damage to spacecraft armor.
	- Orbital calculations are approximate (obviously, since the N-body problem is unsolved), and use a 4th order symplectic integrator to solve orbital states.
	- Atmospheric drag is not accounted for, since the entire game takes place in space, rather than in atmospheres, or on terrestrial surfaces. Thus, aerobraking is not possible in this simulation.
	- A number of material properties could not be found for a lot of different materials, and thus were estimated based on the interpolation of properties of similar materials.
	- Solar storms, and space weather, are not accounted for in this simulation.
	- Relativistic effects are not accounted for, as all speeds of spacecraft will be newtonian, and only at extremely close distances to the sun will general relativity's effects be noticable (at least for this solar system).
	- Many spacecraft systems rely on equations that were derived from research data at much smaller scales than are present in this simulation, since data at the scale present in this simulation has never been researched. For example, real life Magnetoplasmadynamic Thrusters have never been tested in the multi-Megawatt, or Gigawatt range, but you can build such thrusters in this simulation (just watch out for the Onset Phenomenon!).
	- Many thermodynamic processes are treated as adiabatic processes. The only exceptions are when thermodynamic losses are very significant and measurable.
	- Most gases are treated as ideal gases.

Concept Unlocking Content and Mods	Unlocking Content and Mods
Concept Unlocking Content and Mods Description
	Most of the content in Children of a Dead Earth is locked away initially, and must be unlocked by progressing through the game levels. This is because the sheer depth of the science involved in the inner workings of the game can be overwhelming to new players.
	However, some players, such as scientists and engineers, may not be interested in progressing through the levels of the game, and may wish to only explore the scientific parts of the game,ly ship design and module design. For those players, all non-level content can be unlocked here if they so choose, using the button at the bottom of this article.
	If you choose to do so, be advised that although you can design your own modules, weapons, thrusters, and so on, as well as your own ships, you will not be able to use them in the campaign until you would reach a point where you would have actually unlocked ship and module design. However, you may always still try out your designs in the sandbox mode.
	Concerning mods, Children of a Dead Earth limits itself to near future technologies in order to remain as plausible as possible, and because only near future technologies have had significant analysis of all of their stresses and limitations. However, modders may be interested in using the Children of a Dead Earth engine for experimenting with untested, hypothetical, or even fictitious technologies.
	To that end, Children of a Dead Earth supports mod support directly in game, and this is also unlocked here. This allows creation of 'Black Box' technologies in Module Design, which are not necessarily limited by scientific constraints. Enabling mods causes Black Box Engines and Black Box Weapons to both be created in Module Design as new designs in Engines and Weapons respectively.

Concept Steam Workshop	Steam Workshop
Concept Steam Workshop Description
	Steam Workshop is supported as of version 1.1.2.0. After subscribing to a Steam Workshop Item, you must restart the game for the item to be loaded in.
	You can make Steam Workshop Items in two ways: Uploading individual modules or ships and their dependencies as a single Workshop Item, or uploading an arbitrary group of files as a Workshop Item.
	To upload an individual module or ship, this option can be found at the bottom right corner buttons of ship and module design, next to the export button.
	To upload an arbitrary group of files as a Workshop Item, use the button on this screen. All files located in the Mods/WorkshopExport/ folder will be exported. It should mimic the file structure of the game data to correctly be loaded in as a mod. For example, 'Mods/WorkshopExport/Data/AI.txt'. You will have to edit the preview image, title, and description in Steam Workshop itself.
	If you wish to overwrite an existing Workshop Item (for instance, if you're updating a mod you've uploaded previously), you must put a file called 'WorkshopID.txt' in the Mods/ folder (not the WorkshopExport folder). In this file, there must only be a number which is the Steam Workshop Item ID. You can find the ID of your existing Workshop Items in your web browser's address when inspecting the item.
	To customize the upload thumbnail, you need to save an image called 'Preview' (plus extension) in the Mods folder. It MUST be less than 1 MB and can only be a jpg, png, or bmp.



Concept The Cataclysm	The Cataclysm
Concept The Cataclysm Subject	Doctrine
Concept The Cataclysm Description
	Most of our military commanders are mandated to know the history of our great Republic. What follows is an abridged version of where our faction traces its origins to. It has its roots in The Cataclysm.
	It is unclear how The Cataclysm started, but most experts assume it began with contentions over resources, land, or ideology. The two conglomerate states of old Earth, the North Eurasian Socialist Republic (NESR), and the East Asian Megastate (EAM), declared war on one another. Both sides cited vastly different reasons for entering the conflict, and in any case, the truth was distorted so much that it is unclear which would be most to blame. Or if a third party played both sides to initiate the conflict.
	Regardless, both sides had nuclear weapons, yet both states had pledged to nuclear weapon ban treaties that they wouldn't use them against one another. Most of the other countries were quite content to sit on the sidelines and spout platitudes about "restraint" while the two nations tore each other apart.
	With absurd amounts of conventional weaponry, including explosives on par with nuclear weapons, the two nations began a war, one that the EAM quickly took control of. They overwhelmed NESR troops with sheer numbers, and was rapidly encroached on the NESR capital.
	Not keen on suffering complete collapse, the NESR responded to this threat against its capital by detonating several gigatons of nuclear weapons in the Pacific Ocean off the coast of the EAM. It triggered massive tsunamis, destroying a tremendous amount of infrastructure, and causing mass causalties of civilians across the EAM. Other non-allied states such as Japan, Australia, and to a lesser degree, the United States, all suffered damage from the tsunamis.
	The NESR claimed that it didn't directly attack with a nuclear weapon, that it simply was striking the ocean, so it was well within the bounds of the treaty. Other nations were enraged at the collateral damage, yet they still were not keen on joining the fray.
	The EAM, in retaliation, detonated several megatons in space above the north pole, triggering a massive EMP blast across the entire north hemisphere. The NESR's entire electrical grid went dead, as did much of the rest of the northern hemisphere. Again, the attack was not directly against the enemy, it was an attack on the atmosphere, so it was technically within the bounds of the nuclear weapon ban treaty. At this, point, most northern hemisphere nations were enraged at the EAM as well. And then the EAM seized the NESR capital.
	The NESR, in a move of desperation (still not using nuclear weapons), executed their final fallback plan to coat the icecaps with a thin layer of ash, reducing the albedo of the icecaps. The icecaps absorbed more light than normal, heating up and melting them, which caused the albedo to fall even more, triggering a positive feedback loop of the icecaps melting until they were completely seawater. China's entire eastern seaboard was wiped out, and a huge portion of the country submerged underwater. As was parts of the United States, portions of India, large parts of Europe and South America. Entire countries were submerged and wiped out over the course of days. At this point, no country could really feel any rage. They only felt fear. By now, the war seemed to be at a standstill, with millions of civilians freezing to death or drowned, and millions more people across the world dead as well. Yet, in a move of unfettered perseverance, the NESR military retook control of their capital and then began marching on the remains of the EAM.
	Unfortunately for the world, the EAM had one more fallback plan, and still refused to back down. The EAM's various asteroid mining companies all had ties to the EAM government, and one asteroid in particular was diverted to hit the NESR mainland. For some foolish reason, they still didn't want to break the nuclear weapons treaty. And so they instead weaponized an asteroid. And no faction in the northern hemisphere could launch any nuclear weapons to try and stop it, because all of their electronic sensing and targeting equipment had yet to have been repaired from the damage of the EMP.
	The rock was just big enough to leave a giant crater in the NESR, and just small enough that it wouldn't do appreciable damage to the EAM. Of course, the earthquakes that were triggered as a result of this did more than enough damage to the EAM anyways. And to the rest of the world. And then the crater filled with ocean water, triggering a wobble in Earth's rotation, causing seismic activity across the entire globe. At this point, most nations, developed or not, were in a postapocalyptic hell. Any and all power grids across the world were completely disrupted, and entire cities were leveled by earthquakes or were now at the bottom of the ocean.
	But the worst was yet to come. The dark ash and dust kicked up by the asteroid hung in the atmosphere, and absorbed more and more sunlight, heating up the atmosphere until a runaway greenhouse effect took place. It is estimated that, had the majority of the world's infrastructure been still intact, various plans could've been executed to reverse this heating effect. But most developed nations were now standing on top of a pile shattered cities and weeping souls. And so it was determined that the cheapest plan was to evacuate the earth.
	At the time the United States, Japan, India, and Pakistan collectively had six undamaged supersonic skyhooks. They had survived due to remaining high in the atmosphere away from the carnage. The EAM's and NESR's skyhooks had been the first thing destroyed in the war. The skyhooks had been used them to sling material into Low Earth Orbit to send to their various space stations, the moon city, or to the newly formed Mars colony. And now every country was clambering to use them to dump people offworld. The LEO (Low Earth Orbit) space station cities were flooded with refugees from Earth. Space construction companies sprung up and flourished as they tried to build more and more habitats in LEO and on Luna. Enormous volumes of algae and other biomass were scooped from the ocean and the Earth's surface to try to offset the impending oxygen and nutrient needs.
	Meanwhile, billions of people were dying of starvation as the entire staple food market collapsed under the increasing heat. And millions more died in orbit due to food or oxygen shortages, the bodies converted into compost to supply food for the rest of the refugees.
	In the span of under a decade, a fraction of a billion people were evacuated to LEO, Luna, or even Mars. The other billions all perished, and Earth turned into another Venus. The oceans boiled off, and all remaining living things evaporated. Although its distance from the sun made it somewhat cooler than Venus, it still struck a fiery hot and utterly inhospitable equilibrium.
	Just like that, the cradle of humanity was no more. Shrouded in hatred and hubris, this planet, and it's thousands of years of human culture, a symbol of humanity's progress, was now just a tombstone, a reminder of the fragility of it all. A dire warning of how easy existence can just vanish, and how utterly responsible we are for our own destruction. And humanity was left as nothing more than a mass of orphans trying to carve out a living in the solar system, children of a dead Earth.

Concept Diplomacy	Diplomacy
Concept Diplomacy Subject	Doctrine
Concept Diplomacy Description
	As the war begins to heat up, we encourage all of our commanders to read up on our military doctrine. Below is a short outline on our place in the war.
	For us, the Republic of the Free People, we emphasize that the enemy is not made of monsters. The enemy is composed of human beings, human soldiers, human captains, human admirals, human politicians, and human civilians. Just like us. They are not cartoon villians, and we are not cartoon heroes. Or villians. In the end, the USTA simply wants to protect their faction, their people, their culture. We want to protect our faction, our people, our culture. We want to survive, to thrive, to live at peace, and flourish, just like them.
	Truth is, nobody wants war. Not us, not them.
	So why aren't we engaging in diplomacy, sending out ambassadors, and trying to negotiate peace terms, like civilized human beings?
	We could. They could, as well. The thing is, although this undeclared war is a very recent phenomenon, its roots have been brewing for decades at least. The USTA understands, like us, that the only way to truly guarantee one's own survival is to ensure no one else exists. A faction is unpredictable, and being at peace now can change the instant government leadership changes hands. The USTA tries to guarantee this by being the only solar superpower. They invest tremendous amounts of money into their military spending in order to ensure military superiority.
	And now there's us, the Republic of the Free People, the only other faction capable of being a equal, economically, and militaristically. At least, as the years have dragged on, we have been slowly catching up, both in terms of GDP, and in terms of military might. And that scares the USTA. They foresaw a future where our economy crushes theirs, where we are bigger, better than them. They knew that right now we have had little interest in warmongering. But what if, suddenly, our people elect a new, militaristic president, and peace transforms into to war in one election cycle?
	Well, then the USTA's survival would be jeopardized. The USTA is not shortsighted, they foresaw that possibility, and it terrified them. You may say they were paranoid, but every faction should be very concerned about their survival. And that's why they began claiming numerous asteroids in the belt, trying to acquire more territory, more resources, in order to stay ahead of us, in order to keep their economy on top. These blatantly aggressive tactics were not done because the USTA is evil, or unjust. They simply were afraid, and were taking steps to stop this frightening future from ever happening.
	On top of that, the USTA have been recently implementing sanctions, utterly halting their fissile trade with us over the last few years. In the coming years, that will cripple every spaceship we build, be it military or civilian. Our analysts predict that, with their economic sanctions, in under a decade our entire trade economy will collapse, tremendous starvation will occur across our many moons, and our faction will splinter into disparate states, each dependent on the USTA for food and air. That would be their ideal result of all of this.
	The only real way out that we can see is war. Neither of us want to engage in war, but we're doing so out of the best interest of our own factions. The USTA would only accept peace if we were weaker, splintered, and unable to challenge their might. We would only accept peace if we could stand as an equal to them.
	So war it must be. And we intend to see this war through to the bitter end.

Concept Warfare	Warfare
Concept Warfare Subject	Doctrine
Concept Warfare Description
	Understanding our Republic Space Force's military philosophy is crucial to understanding the orders that the high command gives. What follows is a quick run through of said doctrine.
	The primary philosophy behind how this Republic engages in warfare can be summed up with one word: Survival.
	We're here to win this war, not to simply stalemate, because a stalement leaves us open for attack in the future. To utterly crush our opponent, to utterly annihilate our enemy, is the only possible way to ensure survival.
	It follows then, that there is no tactic too dirty, too underhanded for us. Concepts such as honor, diginity, and fairness are all ridiculous in the face of death. It is often said that it is only when you're staring down a salvo of nuclear missiles making a beeline for you, that you finally grasp how meaningless fighting fair truly is.
	Fiction would have us believe that the people who fight dirty always lose, as if the universe is looking out for the virtuous, rewarding the good while punishing the wicked. But in reality, the universe doesn't care. The people who fight the dirtiest gain the greatest advantage. The ruthless win, and the virtuous falter. This is not because the universe wants the wicked to win; it is simply that fighting dirty is a more efficient combat style than fighting clean. And when one's objective is survivial, one will always want the most efficient combat style.
	One might observe that this is a very amoral point of view, and this is true. But morals are irrelevant if one are dead. If one is unable to survive, then holding on to virtues are meaningless. One is only afforded the luxury of being able to wax philosophically about right and wrong if one is alive.
	And until our faction's survival can be guaranteed, you can bet that morality, and fighting fair, will always be off the table.

Concept The People	The People
Concept The People Subject	Doctrine
Concept The People Description
	Due to transparency concerns from numerous Admirals in our ranks, high command has decided to publish a document concerning this matter. Please read it below if you are similarly concerned.
	The people we serve, the civilians of the Republic of the Free People, know little about what goes on in this war except what our tightly controlled news outlets yield them. High command believe it's for the best.
	Throughout history, whenever civilians get a front row seat to the horrors of war, they riot, they protest, and they try to stop the war. This republic can't afford such a thing. After all, what would happen if our citizens would riot and stop our war effort, while the enemy's citizens did not? We would lose the war quite rapidly. Our people don't grasp the nuances of why we fight, of why the actions we take are necessary, no matter how terrible. They only see the violence, the destruction, the suffering, and immediately lock onto that, their emotions overriding any chance at trying to tease apart the nuances of the situation. The citizens' shortsightened emotional appeasement might actually cost them their livelihoods, or even their lives.
	So, the military pulls the wool over their eyes, gives them a rosy picture of what is happening during the war, and keeps their information sources locked down and tightly monitored. This is not out of malice.
	We are not enemies of our people, we're not trying to hurt them, or wrong them. Everything we do, we do for them, for their well being, for their safety. In a sense, we're protecting them from themselves. And we will do terrible things for their safety.
	Now, one might think that these people would not want terrible things done for their sake. The people themselves will tell you that, too. But they don't actually stand behind that sentiment. You see, most of the solar system's middle class is built on the backs of the poor. These middle class people enjoy the wonders and comforts of modern technology, and all the luxurious foods, expensive bling, and high quality porn they could ever dream of need. Enough entertainment to last a century.
	But it all comes at the expense of the less fortunate. Ice collector kids (kids consume less oxygen, after all) working the rings of Saturn, working jobs where a small air leak means the kids suffocate and get quickly replaced; the dead kids are quickly flushed out the airlock to save on mass ratio. Sex slaves trafficked from across the solar system to Europa to create the most lucrative porn, and service the most deviant and illegal sexual fantasies of the sex tourists there. The ESL_5 Station workers, working the huge swaths farmland to provide fresh meat and vegetables for the whole solar system, indebted to a life of poverty and servitude.
	There's no such thing as a free lunch, and for our people to be able to have their creature comforts, someone has to pay, of course.
	The average person will scream their lungs out about the terrible conditions of the factory workers on Ganymede who work in nearly slave labor conditions to make shoes. But ask them to give up their own shoes, and they will balk, and make excuses, and flaunt their cognitive dissonance. Everyone wants to be compassionate until it actually costs them something.
	Despite what they will claim, the average person actually prefers this life of living on the backs of others, to a life of equality among people. If you give the average person the choice between a life of leisure built on the backs of starving children and impoverished laborers, and a life of struggle, guess which one they choose? It seems the desire for an easy life trumps a guilty conscience any day of the week. People motivated to help others at the expense of themselves are an oddity, a fluke in the ways of human culture. They appear from time to time, make noise, get recorded in a footnote in the history books, and then die off. And they are far too few to actually make a difference.
	This reality is why we convince our people that the war is just, and civil. If they knew the truth, they would protest, and kick up a fuss, crippling our economy. Then, when the enemy invades and subjugates them all, they would beg for forgiveness, but by then, it would be too late. They want their life of comfort, even if at the cost of millions of deaths of people they don't know, but they'll never admit it.
	That's what we're here for. To let them live in their lie, to tell them that they're not thriving on the suffering of others, even though they are, and that is exactly what they want. To protect them, to serve them. To give them exactly the kind of life they want, the kind of life they will never admit to wanting.

Concept War Crimes	War Crimes
Concept War Crimes Subject	Doctrine
Concept War Crimes Description
	Should we lose this war, in all likelihood, we would be tried as war criminals for the actions we have taken to win. Rest assured we discounted no course of action because it was unconscionable. We're here to win the war, and any acts of kindness or compassion will have to wait until we have succeeded.
	This is no different than any war throughout human history. The winning side of any wartime conflict often gets free reign to try and execute enemy leaders for war crimes, because both sides often commit countless atrocities each. The only difference is that the winning side gets to sweep their atrocities under the carpet, and rewrite history, all while exposing all the atrocities of the enemy for the world to see. It's how war works.
	Every civilized faction tries their best not to commit crimes against humanity. We try not to. The USTA tries not to. But soldiers and officers are deviant, and war tends to attract the worst kind of people. And so these atrocities get committed, and for the sake of the support of civilians at home, the good people above them have to cover up the atrocities. And because we can't risk losing valuable soldiers and officers during the war, we slap the offenders on the wrist. A court marshal, a firm warning, but nothing major. Nothing that would hinder our war effort.
	And it's not just them. There are many situations where the enemy deliberately tries to provoke war crimes from us. They hide military troops among civilian cities and space stations. They conceal their war machines in civilan transports. And thus when we destroy a military target, a couple thousand civilians die as collateral. They simply tried to take every advantage they could, and we tried our best to stop that advantage, and several thousand innocent women and men die as a consequence.
	And finally, always remember that war crimes can often be very effective in wartime. If we're here to win, you can bet we're going to take try to take every possible advantage we can. Simply remember that we're not here to destroy, to do evil, to cause suffering. War crimes are a side effect of trying to win in every possible way we can. They are a means, not an end.
	So atrocities are inevitable, that much is clear. This means that the only thing we can do is hope we win the war, so that we can erase our atrocities from history.
	And should we be forced to answer for our atrocities when the war is won? No. It would splinter our people. If our people discovered the lengths we took to win the war, they'd be horrified. They don't realize the gravity of the situation. And they'd call for us and most of the military's top brass to be executed. And it would weaken our victory, and give the enemy a chance to rise up once again. Maybe decades after the enemy has securely capitulated could we admit such things.
	But rest assured that there would be no true justice. When you yourself carry out orders to commit crimes against humanity, you would be just following orders. And your superior would be following orders as well. But everyone in the chain of command does in fact share some of the responsibility. The Nuremberg trials have taught us that much.
	We're all a little responsible for the terrors we've created. Even the politicians at home who funded the war, and the people who elected them, and even our civilians who cry out for jingoism from their safe little homes. They all share a tiny piece of the responsibility for the actions we take.
	But human beings don't like that. They want someone to blame. They like to be able to pin all their problems on a single person, or a single group of people. That small group of people are evil, blame them. Everyone else, we're okay, we're decent folk, we didn't have any hand in these terrible things.
	A truly fair tribunal of the crimes committed against humanity would convict much of the human race, but that's not feasible nor possible. The military commanders at the top get the blame, and history goes on, without the humans underneath grasping just how deep the web of hate is woven. In this sense, there will never be any true justice for any war crimes that ever will be committed.
	In the end, war crimes have been committed and will continue to be committed until this war is over. All that you can and should do is make sure we're the ones who end as the victors.





Name	Name
OK	OK
Cancel	Cancel
Paused	PAUSED
PressSpaceToUnpauseGame	Press [SPACE] to unpause the game.
SteamNotEnabled	Steam is not enabled.
NoItems	No Items
Options	Options
Exit	Exit
Back	Back
Other	Other
CloseNotification	Close Notification
EditSortingFilters	Edit Sorting Filters
SteamDisabled	Steam is Disabled.
SteamUGPDisabled	Steam UGP is not enabled.
SteamItemAlreadyBeingUploaded	Another item is already being uploaded to Steam Workshop.
SteamTimedOut	Timed out.

EnemiesInRange
	Enemies
	In Range
RunTurn
	Run
	Turn
1m	1m
10m	10m
1h	1h
6h	6h
1D	1D
6D	6D
1M	1M
Infolinks	Infolinks
ShipClasses	Ship Classes
ModuleDesign	Module Design
ShipDesign	Ship Design
Edit	Edit
View	View
Delete	Delete
Duplicate	Duplicate
ExitToFleetDesign	Exit To Fleet Design
ReviewBriefing	Review Briefing
MessageLog	MessageLog
ScreenshotMode	Screenshot Mode
PauseMenu	PauseMenu
RestartMission	Restart Mission
ExitToMainMenu	Exit To Main Menu
Campaign	Campaign
EnterSandbox	Enter Sandbox
Sandbox	Sandbox
EditInShipDesign	Edit in Ship Design
ViewInShipDesign	View in Ship Design
ModuleTypes	Module Types
NewShip	New Ship
NewSpacecraft	New Spacecraft
New	New
NewModule	New %s
Accept	Accept
Spacecrafts	Spacecrafts
Export	Export
SaveAsCopy	Save As Copy
Propulsion	Propulsion
Weapon	Weapon
PropellantTank	Propellant Tank
Refueler	Refueler
Powerplant	Powerplant
Radiator	Radiator
Command	Command
Payload	Ordnance
Ammo	Ammo
ExtinctionCoefficient	Extinction Coefficient
RefractiveIndex	Refractive Index
EmissionSpectra	Emission Spectra
Wavelength	Wavelength
TransitionProbability	Transition Probability
Transmittance	Transmittance
Reflectance	Reflectance
Infolinks UnlockAll	Unlock All
Infolinks SearchReferences	Search References...
Infolinks MoreInfo	More Info...
Infolinks References	References
SpecialThanks	SpecialThanks
BetaTesters	BetaTesters
Index	Index
Title	Title
Authors	Authors
Subject	Subject
Voices	Voices
Close	Close
Names	Names
Story	Story
Headline	Headline
VoiceActing	Voice Acting
Music	Music
ExportToWorkshop	Export To Workshop
CreatedBy	Created By
AdditionalAlphaTesters	Additional Alpha Testers
MainAlphaTesters	Main Alpha Testers
BeginMission	Begin Mission
GoToBriefing	Go To Briefing
Shipyard	Shipyard
GoToEnding	Go To Ending
NextMission	Next Mission
MissionSuccessful	Mission Successful
MissionFailed	Mission Failed
NewRecord	New Record!
YourBest	Your Best
Record	Record
LevelRating	Rating
CurrentRecord	Current
Levels	Levels
Challenges	Challenges
Go	Go
DeltaV	Delta-v
EnginesDestroyed	Engines Destroyed
FleetStats	Fleet Stats
Acceleration	Acceleration
PropellantsUsed	Propellants Used
UnlimitedCost	Unlimited Cost
UnlimitedMass	Unlimited Mass
MassLimits	Mass Limits
CostLimits	Cost Limits
InfoAndOptions	Info and Options
Reset	Reset
Alliance	Alliance
SupplementalText	Supplemental Text
EngagingCrafts	Engaging Crafts
Resume	Resume
Menu	Menu
DisableHelp	Disable Help
Summary	Summary
TimeLimit	Time Limit
Date	Date
Abbreviation	Abbreviation
ShipPrefix	Ship Prefix
Distance	Distance
VelocityDifference	Velocity Difference
TimeElapsed	Time Elapsed
TimeLeft	Time Left
FrameOfReference	Frame Of Reference
CancelTrajectory	Cancel Trajectory
BeginTrajectory	Begin Trajectory
FocusCamera	Focus Camera...
SetFrameOfReference	Set Frame of Reference...
SelectObject	Select Object...
Compare	Compare
Description	Description
Current	Current
Original	Original
Animation	Animation
Crew	Crew
CrewDepartment	 Department
TotalCrew	Total
CrewCaptain	Captain
CrewSensorSpecialists	Sensor Specialists
CrewCommOfficers	Comm Officers
CrewChiefEngineer	Chief Engineer
CrewFirstOfficer	First Officer
CrewYeoman	Yeoman
CrewPilot	Tactical Pilot
CrewEWSpecialist	EW Specialist
CrewAstrogation	Astrogation Officers
CrewDoctors	Doctors
CrewCooks	Cooks
CrewLogistics	Logistics Officers
CrewFlyByWire	%s Fly-by-Wire Pilot
CrewTechnician	%s Technician
CrewAirTechnician	Air Circulation Technician
CrewWasteWaterTechnician	Water and Waste Technician
CrewCargoUnloader	Cargo Unloader
CrewGunner	%s Gunner
CrewReactorTechnician	Nuclear Reactor Technician
CrewReactorEngineer	Nuclear Reactor Engineer
CrewRadiatorTechnician	Radiator Technician
CrewOperator	%s Operator
CrewEngineTechnician	Engine Technician
Mass	Mass
Cost	Cost
Power	Power
Heat	Heat
Armor	Armor
Armor Radial	Radial
Armor End	End
Armor Start	Start
Armor Spacing	Spacing
Armor Innermost	 (Innermost)
Armor Outermost	 (Outermost)
Armor Composition	Composition
Armor Shape	Shape
Armor Concavity	Concave
Armor AspectRatio	Aspect Ratio
Armor Thickness	Thickness
Armor Rotation	Rotation
Armor Layer Title	%s of %s
Datum Copy	 Copy
SteamWorkshopID	(Steam Workshop ID: %s)
ShipClass	Ship Class
HeatDissipation	Heat Dissipation
Modules	Modules
Module Count	Count
Module Rotation	Rotation
PowerUse	Power Use
ExplosiveChart Title	Shrapnel at Hit
ExplosiveChart XAxis	Launch Velocity
ExplosiveChart YAxis	Radius
ExplosiveUI Detonate	Detonate
PowerOutput	Power Output
BurnTime	Burn Time
BurnTemperature	Burn Temperature
BurnTimeLeft	Burn Time Left
LaserIntensityChart Title	Intensity Range
LaserIntensityChart XAxis	Range
LaserIntensityChart YAxis	Intensity
LaserArcLampChart Title	Arc Lamp Spectra
LaserArcLampChart XAxis	Wavelength
LaserArcLampChart YAxis	Intensity
LaserDamageAtEngagementRange	Damage at Engagement Range
Optic Lens	Lens
Optic Mirror	Mirror
Optic NonlinearOptic	Nonlinear Optic
PowerRequired	Power Required
Radius	Radius
Height	Height
NuclearPayloadChart Title	Damage At Range
NuclearPayloadChart XAxis	Distance
NuclearPayloadChart YAxis	Fluence
NuclearPayloadUI Detonate	Detonate
NuclearPayloadUI IgnoreMinimumRange	Ignore Minimum Range
NuclearPayloadUI DelayedTrigger	Delayed Trigger
PropellantTank Status	%s (%s) Left
PropellantTankUI EjectWhenEmpty	Discard When Empty
PropellantTankUI Eject	Detach
RadiatorHeatChart Title	Heat Dissipated
RadiatorHeatChart XAxis	Module Temperature
RadiatorHeatChart YAxis	Heat
RadiatorEfficiencyChart Title	Efficiency
RadiatorEfficiencyChart XAxis	Module Temperature
RadiatorEfficiencyChart YAxis	Efficiency
RadiatorEmissivityChart Title	Emissivity
RadiatorEmissivityChart XAxis	Module Temperature
RadiatorEmissivityChart YAxis	Emissivity
ReactionMass	Reaction Mass
Refueler Status SomeRefueling	 (Some are Auto-refueling)
Refueler Status AllRefueling	 (Auto-refueling)
RefuelerUI Extract	Extract
LauncherUI Launch1	Launch 1
LauncherUI Launch5	Launch 5
LauncherUI Launch20	Launch 20
LauncherUI LaunchAll	Launch All
LauncherUI CancelLaunches	Cancel All
LauncherUI LaunchWithOrder	Launch with Order
LauncherUI SplitLaunches	Split From Fleet
RemoteControlUI Disarm	Disarm
RemoteControlUI DistributeHoming	Distributive Homing
RemoteControlUI DefaultPhase	Use Default Phases
RemoteControlUI BoostPhase	Force Boost Phase
RemoteControlUI MidcoursePhase	Force Midcourse Phase
RemoteControlUI TerminalPhase	Force Terminal Phase
WeaponRangeEstimations	Range Estimations
WeaponSizeEstimatorSmall	Small
WeaponSizeEstimatorMedium	Medium
WeaponSizeEstimatorCapital	Capital
WeaponRangeChart Title	Accurate Ranges
WeaponRangeChart XAxis	Target Cross Section
WeaponRangeChart YAxis	Range
Weapon Status OutOfAmmo	Out Of Ammo
Weapon Status RoundsLeft	%i Rounds Left
Weapon Status PendingLaunch	%i Pending Launch
Weapon Message AlliesAreFiring	Allies are firing %s
Weapon Message EnemiesAreFiring	Enemy is firing %s
Weapon Message ShipIsFiring	%s is firing %s
WeaponUI DodgePrediction	Dodge Prediction
WeaponUI IgnoreRange	Ignore Range
WeaponUI DistributedTargeting	Distributed Targeting
ConventionalGunPressureChart Title	Breech Pressure
ConventionalGunPressureChart XAxis	Distance Along Barrel
ConventionalGunPressureChart YAxis	Pressure
CoilgunAccelerationChart Title	Acceleration
CoilgunAccelerationChart XAxis	Distance Along Stage
CoilgunAccelerationChart YAxis	Acceleration
RailgunAccelerationChart Title	Acceleration
RailgunAccelerationChart XAxis	Distance Along Stage
RailgunAccelerationChart YAxis	Acceleration
MPDThrusterChart Title	Voltage: %s
MPDThrusterChart BackEMF	Back EMF
MPDThrusterChart AnodeSheath	Anode Sheath Voltage Drop
MPDThrusterChart PlasmaHeating	Plasma Heating Voltage
MPDThrusterChart WorkFunction	Work Function Voltage
MPDThrusterChart Ionization	Ionization Voltage
MPDThrusterChart CovalentDissociation	Covalent Dissociation Voltage
NuclearReactor Subcritical	Subcritical
NuclearReactor Supercritical	Supercritical
NuclearReactor Waste	Waste
NuclearReactor ControlRods	Control Rods
NuclearReactor Coolant	Coolant
NuclearReactor Moderator	Moderator
NuclearReactor Fuel	Fuel
ThermalRocket Chamber	Chamber
ThermalRocket Throat	Throat
ThermalRocket Nozzle	Nozzle
ThermalRocket GasWall	Gas Wall
ThermalRocket LiquidWall	Liquid Wall
Mach	Mach 
PowerUse Solenoid	Solenoid
PowerUse CrewQuarters	Crew Quarters
PowerUse LinearMotor	Linear Motor
PowerUse Capacitors	Capacitors
PowerUse InjectorAndThruster	Injector And Thruster
PowerUse MPDThruster	MPD Thruster
PowerUse ArcLamp	Arc Lamp
PowerUse Rails	Rails
PowerUse InjectorAndCoil	Injector And Coil
PowerUse Turbopump	Turbopump
PowerUse TurretMotors	Turret Motors
PowerUse MomentumWheels	Momentum Wheels
Gun Turreted	Turreted 
Gun Fixed	Fixed 
Gun Round	 Round
Gun Internal	Internal 
Weapon Railgun	Railgun
Weapon Coilgun	Coilgun
Weapon Cannon	Cannon
Green	Green
Yellow	Yellow
Violet	Violet
Blue	Blue
Orange	Orange
Red	Red
GammaRay	Gamma Ray
ExtremeUV	Extreme Ultraviolet
NearUV	Near Ultraviolet
HardXRay	Hard X-Ray
SoftXRay	Soft X-Ray
FarIR	Far Infrared
MidIR	Mid Infrared
LongwaveIR	Longwave Infrared
NearIR	Near Infrared
ShortwaveIR	Shortwave Infrared
THzMicrowave	THz Microwave
KMicrowave	K Band Microwave
KuMicrowave	Ku Band Microwave
QMicrowave	Q Band Microwave
KaMicrowave	Ka Band Microwave
WMicrowave	W Band Microwave
VMicrowave	V Band Microwave
DMicrowave	D Band Microwave
FMicrowave	F Band Microwave
SMicrowave	S Band Microwave
LMicrowave	L Band Microwave
XMicrowave	X Band Microwave
CMicrowave	C Band Microwave
HFRadiowave	HF Radiowave
MFRadiowave	MF Radiowave
UHFRadiowave	UHF Radiowave
VHFRadiowave	VHF Radiowave
ELFRadiowave	ELF Radiowave
TLFRadiowave	TLF Radiowave
ULFRadiowave	ULF Radiowave
SLFRadiowave	SLF Radiowave
LFRadiowave	LF Radiowave
VLFRadiowave	VLF Radiowave
Degrees	
Million	 million 
Billion	 billion 
AmmoContainers	Ammo Containers
PropellantTanks	Propellant Tanks
Powerplants	Powerplants
Engines	Engines
CrewModules	Crew Modules
Payloads	Ordnances
Weapons	Weapons
Radiators	Radiators
Misc	Misc
Propellant	Propellant
ArmorLayer	Armor Layer
PropellantTank Drop	Drop
PropellantTank External	External
PropellantTank Armored	Armored
PropellantTank Tank	Tank
Engine Gimballed	Gimballed 
Engine CombustionRocket	Combustion Rocket
Engine MagnetoplasmadynamicThruster	Magnetoplasmadynamic Thruster
Engine MPDThruster	MPD Thruster
Engine NuclearThermalRocket	Nuclear Thermal Rocket
Engine NTR	Nuclear Rocket
Engine Resistojet	Resistojet
Weapon BlastLauncher	Blast Launcher
Weapon Launcher	Launcher
Weapon Capacitor	Capacitor
Weapon Laser	Laser
Weapon Mount	Mount
Weapon Fixed	Fixed
Weapon Turret	Turret
Command RemoteControl	Remote Control
Command Fuse	Fuse
Command CrewModule	Crew Module
Payload FlakBomb	Flak Bomb
Payload Explosive	Explosive
Payload Flare	Flare
Misc CargoBay	Cargo Bay
Misc Diameter	Diameter
Misc RadiationShield	Radiation Shield
Misc Spacer	Spacer
Payload PureFission	Pure Fission
Payload BoostedFission	Boosted Fission
Payload Nuke	Nuke
Radiator Radiator	Radiator
Powerplant RTG	Radioisotope Thermoelectric Generator
Powerplant Generator	Generator
Powerplant Reactor	Fission Reactor
Powerplant ThermoReactor	Thermoelectric Fission Reactor
Powerplant TurboReactor	Turboelectric Fission Reactor
Misc Refueler	Refueler
Misc AutoRefueler	Auto-Refueler
InfoBox Resistojet	Dissociation: %s
InfoBox RTG	
	Fuel Temperature: %s
	Fuel Heating: %s
InfoBox NTR	Dissociation: %s
InfoBox ExplosionHazard	Explosion Hazard
InfoBox BipropellantMassRatio	
	%s-to-%s Ratio:
		%s : 1 (by mass)
InfoBox CraftSize	
	Length: %s
	Hull Diameter: %s
	Total Diameter: %s
	Cross Section: %s
InfoBox CraftMass	Mass: %s
InfoBox CraftCost	Cost: %s
InfoBox CraftHeatSignature	Heat Signature: %s
InfoBox CraftHeatSignaturePeak	
	Ambient Heat: %s
	Peak Heat: %s
InfoBox CraftMovement	
	Acceleration: %s
	Dry Acceleration: %s
	Total Burn Time: %s
InfoBox CraftTurnabout	Turnabout Time: %s
InfoBox CraftRollabout	Rollabout Time: %s
InfoBox MassRatio	
	Mass Ratio: %s
	Wet Mass: %s
	Dry Mass: %s
InfoBox MassRatioIndented	
		Mass Ratio: %s
		Wet Mass: %s
		Dry Mass: %s
InfoBox MassRatioStage	Discardable Stage
InfoBox MassRatioSpacecraft	Spacecraft
InfoBox CraftDeltaV	Delta-v: %s km/s
InfoBox CraftDeltaVCantTurn	Can't Turn
InfoBox CraftArmor	%s of %s
InfoBox EngineAdvancedInfo	
	Thrust Power: %s
	Mass Flow Rate: %s
InfoBox EngineInfo	
	Exhaust Velocity: %s
	Thrust: %s
	Thrust:Mass Ratio: %s
InfoBox EngineGimbal	
	Gimbal Speed: %s
	Gimbal Angle: %s
InfoBox ExplosiveInfo	Shrapnel: %ix %s Pieces
InfoBox RadiationShield	
	Gamma: %.2e
	Thermal Neutron: %.2e
	Fast Neutron: %.2e
InfoBox LaserVitals	
	Output Power: %s
	Wavelength: %s
	M^2: %s
InfoBox LaserFrequencyDoubler	Frequency Doubler
InfoBox LaserFrequencyDoubler2	Frequency Doubler 2
InfoBox LaserAdvancedPowerOutput	
	Output Power: %s / %s
	Max Ambient Temperature: %s
InfoBox LaserAdvancedEfficiency	
	Efficiency: %s
		Pumping: %s
		Cavity Transparency: %s
		Cavity Reflection: %s
		Cavity Shape: %s
		Emission: %s
	%s
		Focusing Mirror: %s
InfoBox RadiationHazard	Radiation Hazard: %s
InfoBox ModuleHeat	
	Heat: %s
	Outlet Temperature: %s
InfoBox ModuleCrew	Crew Required: %.1f
InfoBox NuclearPayload	
	Total Yield: %s
	Total Energy: %s
	Detonation Fluence: %s
	Overall Efficiency: %s
InfoBox NuclearPayloadAdvancedInfo	
	Explosive Energy: %s
	Explosive Compression Ratio: %s
	Fission Efficiency: %s
InfoBox NuclearPayloadFusionBoost	Fusion Boost Efficiency: %s
InfoBox Powerplant	
	Power: %s
	Efficiency: %s
InfoBox PropellantMassRatio	Mass Ratio: %s
InfoBox PropellantArmor	Armor: %s of %s
InfoBox PropellantEjection	Detach Speed: %s
InfoBox PropellantDetonation	Explosion Hazard
InfoBox Radiator	
	Size: %s x %s x %i
	Total Area: %s
InfoBox Refueler	
	Pump Rate: %s
	Range: %s
InfoBox WeaponAmmoCost	Cost per Round: %s
InfoBox WeaponMuzzleVelocity	Muzzle Velocity: %s
InfoBox WeaponSpread	Spread: %s
InfoBox WeaponAmmo	Starting Ammo: %i
InfoBox WeaponTurret	
	Turning Speed: %s /s
	Max Turn Angle: %s
InfoBox WeaponReload	Reload: %s
InfoBox WeaponOverheating	
	Overheated Reload: %s
	Min Overheat Time: %s
InfoBox ConventionalGun	
	Efficiency: %s
	Reload Time: %s
	Heat Jump: %s
	Projectile Energy: %s
InfoBox Coilgun	
	Efficiency: %s
	Firing Time: %s
	Reload Time: %s
	%s
	Heat Jump: %s
	Projectile Energy: %s
InfoBox Railgun	
	Efficiency: %s
	Firing Time: %s
	Reload Time: %s
	%s
	Heat Jump: %s
	Projectile Energy: %s
	Inductance: %s
InfoBox MPDThruster	
	Inductance: %s
	Efficiency: %s
InfoBox NuclearReactor	
	Fast Neutron Non-Leakage: %.2f
	Thermal Neutron Non-Leakage: %.2f
	Reproduction Factor: %.2f
	Fission Utilization Factor: %.2f
	Resonance Escape Probability: %.2f
	Fast Fission Factor: %.2f
InfoBox Capacitor	
	Capacitor
		Breakdown Voltage: %s
		Capacitance: %s
		Total Energy: %s
		Charge Time: %s
Itinerary Status EndsInCollision	Ends in Collision in %s!
Itinerary Status MatchesOrbit	Matches %s orbit in %s
Itinerary Status EngagesFleet	Engages %s in %s
Itinerary Status JoinsFleet	Joins %s in %s
Itinerary Status Freefall	Freefall Trajectory
Itinerary Status InterceptVelocity	Intercept Velocity
Itinerary Status Perpendicular	Perpendicular
Itinerary Status Parallel	Parallel
Itinerary Status ClosestApproach	Closest Approach
Itinerary Status SelectedNode	Selected Node
Itinerary Status Time	Time
Itinerary Status DeltaV	Delta-v
Itinerary Status SingleBurn	Single burn of %s in %s
Itinerary Status NoBurn	No Burn in %s
Itinerary Status BurnIn	%s in %s
Itinerary Status TotalBurns	%i %s totaling %s between %s and %s
Itinerary Status Burn	Burn
Itinerary Status Burns	Burns
Itinerary Status TotalCost	Total Cost
Fleet Status Orbiting	Orbiting %s
Fleet Status OrbitalPeriod	Orbital Period
Fleet Status OrbitalLPoint	Orbiting %s-%s L%i
Trajectory	Trajectory
Actions	Actions
SetFrameOfReferenceButton	Set Frame of Reference
CenterCamera	Center Camera
Select	Select
MatchOrbit	Match %s Orbit
Flyby	Flyby %s
DeleteBurn	Delete Thruster Burn
CircularInjection	Circular Injection Around %s
ReduceTrajectory	Reduce Trajectory
ExtendTrajectory	Extend Trajectory
Join	Join
Intercept	Intercept
CurrentFrameOfReference	Current Frame of Reference
Derelict	Derelict
Fleet	Fleet
Drone	Drone
Capital	Capital
Station	Station
Missile	Missile
Population	Pop
OrbitalPopulation	Orbital Pop
Range	Range
EnemiesAreMovingAway	Enemies are Moving Away
InterceptInTime	Intercept in %s
Disabled	Disabled
ArmorVisualizer	Armor Visualizer
HeatSignature	Heat Signature
Damaged	Damaged
Undamaged	Undamaged
Destroyed	Destroyed
EstimatedArmorDamage	Estimated Armor Damage
None	None
SuperficialDamage	Superficial Damage
LocalBreach	Local Breach
LightDamage	Light Damage
ModerateDamage	Moderate Damage
HeavyDamage	Heavy Damage
CriticalDamage	Critical Damage
Subsystems	Subsystems
PowerNeeded	Needed
PowerTotal	Total
Deactivate	Deactivate
Untarget	Untarget
Activate	Activate
Target	Target
IsTargetPriority	Currently Is Target Priority
IsPartiallyActive	Currently Is Partially Active
IsNotTargetPriority	Currently Is Not a Target Priority
IsPartialTargetPriority	Currently Is Partial Target Priority
IsActive	Currently Is Active
IsDeactivated	Currently Is Deactivated
DamagedModuleTitle	DAMAGED
Orders Cancel	Cancel Order
Orders Cancel Use	No Order
Orders Move	Move
Orders Move Use	Moving
Orders Orient	Re-Orient
Orders Orient Use	Reorienting
Orders Roll	Roll
Orders Roll Use	Rolling
Orders Regroup	Regroup
Orders Regroup Use	Regrouping
Orders Broadside	Orient Broadside
Orders Broadside Use	Orienting Broadside
Orders Homing	Homing
Orders Homing Use	Homing
Orders Scatter	Scatter
Orders Scatter Use	Scattering
Orders NoseForward	Nose Forward
Orders NoseForward Use	Orienting Nose Forward
CraftsAreOutOfDeltaV	Crafts are out of delta-v!
CantBroadsideNoWeapons	Can't Broadside. No crafts have weapons.
CantRollNoRollEngines	Can't Roll. This craft does not thrusters which can roll effectively.
FlybyInTime	Flyby in %s
MixedShips	Mixed Ships
Neutral	Neutral
Allied	Allied
Enemy	Enemy
AwayRange	%s away, %s range
MovingTowards	Towards
MovingAway	Away
Ranges	Ranges
MovingAt	Moving %s at %s
Undo	Undo
Turbine Inlet	Inlet
Turbine ExitAreaChange	Turbine Exit Area Change
Turbine EntryAreaChange	Turbine Entry Area Change
Turbine Exit	Turbine Exit
Turbine TurbopumpExit	Turbopump Exit
Turbine ReactorExit	Reactor Exit

Document	Document
OrbitalElements	OrbitalElements
StartingBody	StartingBody
StarterFleet	StarterFleet
CraftBlueprint	CraftBlueprint
Faction	Faction
Doctrine	Doctrine
Element	Element
CelestialLocation	CelestialLocation
LevelBadges	LevelBadges
CustomObjective	Custom Objective
Speaker	Speaker
Level	Level
Module	Module
EmissionSpectrum	Emission Spectrum
RefractiveIndexSpectrum	Refractive Index Spectrum
Credits	Credits
ImportLog	Import Log
Material	Material
ChemicalReaction	Chemical Reaction
FusionReaction	Fusion Reaction
Concept	Concept
CelestialBody	Celestial Body
BlackBoxPowerModule	Black Box Power Module
AmmoModule	Ammo Module
FlareModule	Flare Module
NuclearPayloadModule	Nuclear Ordnance Module
ExplosiveModule	Explosive Module
RadioisotopeThermoelectricGeneratorModule	Radioisotope Thermoelectric Generator Module
ThermoelectricFissionReactorModule	Thermoelectric Fission Reactor Module
RadiatorModule	Radiator Module
CrewModule	Crew Module
RemoteControlModule	Remote Control Module
FuseModule	Fuse Module
SpacerModule	Spacer Module
RadiationShieldModule	Radiation Shield Module
CargoModule	Cargo Module
StandaloneLaserMountModule	Standalone Laser Mount Module
BlackBoxWeaponModule	Black Box Weapon Module
CarrierModule	Carrier Module
BlastLauncherModule	Blast Launcher Module
CoilgunModule	Coilgun Module
LaserModule	Laser Module
RailgunModule	Railgun Module
PropellantTankModule	Propellant Tank Module
RefuelerModule	Refueler Module
ConventionalGunModule	Conventional Gun Module
ResistojetModule	Resistojet Module
MagnetoplasmadynamicThrusterModule	Magnetoplasmadynamic Thruster Module
BlackBoxEngineModule	Black Box Engine Module
NuclearThermalRocketModule	Nuclear Thermal Rocket Module
CombustionRocketModule	Combustion Rocket Module
DwarfPlanets	Dwarf Planets
Asteroids	Asteroids

TotalMass_kg	TotalMass_kg
Price_c	Price_c
TotalLength_m	TotalLength_m
DeltaV_km__s	DeltaV_km__s
AreaCrossSection_m2	AreaCrossSection_m2
ArmorDiameter_m	ArmorDiameter_m
TotalDiameter_m	TotalDiameter_m
MaxAcceleration_m__s2	MaxAcceleration_m__s2
DryAcceleration_m__s2	DryAcceleration_m__s2
TotalBurnTime_s	TotalBurnTime_s
AmbientHeatSignature_W	AmbientHeatSignature_W
PeakHeatSignature_W	PeakHeatSignature_W
ExplosionVelocity_m__s	ExplosionVelocity_m__s
ExplosiveEnergyDensity_J__kg	ExplosiveEnergyDensity_J__kg
FlameTemperature_K	FlameTemperature_K
FlameSpeed_m__s	FlameSpeed_m__s
FlameWidth_m	FlameWidth_m
CharacteristicLength_m	CharacteristicLength_m
CrewAdded	CrewAdded
MaxGimbalAngle_radians	MaxGimbalAngle_radians
GimbalAngularVelocity_radians__s	GimbalAngularVelocity_radians__s
ThrustPower_W	ThrustPower_W
MaxMassFlowRate_kg__s	MaxMassFlowRate_kg__s
ThrustMassRatio_m__s2	ThrustMassRatio_m__s2
MaxThrust_N	MaxThrust_N
EffectiveExhaustVelocity_km__s	EffectiveExhaustVelocity_km__s
AverageTotalEnergy_eV	AverageTotalEnergy_eV
AstrophysicalFactor_eV_b	AstrophysicalFactor_eV_b
ReducedMass_eV	ReducedMass_eV
EffectiveZ	EffectiveZ
Mass_kg	Mass_kg
TotalCost_c	TotalCost_c
CrewCountRequired	CrewCountRequired
PowerRequired_W	PowerRequired_W
TotalRadiation_W	TotalRadiation_W
Density_kg__m3	Density_kg__m3
Price_c__kg	Price_c__kg
SafeUseTemperature_K	SafeUseTemperature_K
YieldStrength_Pa	YieldStrength_Pa
UltimateTensileStrength_Pa	UltimateTensileStrength_Pa
MeltingPoint_K	MeltingPoint_K
BoilingPoint_K	BoilingPoint_K
SpecificHeat_J__kg_K	SpecificHeat_J__kg_K
ThermalConductivity_W__m_K	ThermalConductivity_W__m_K
ThermalExpansion__K	ThermalExpansion__K
ThermalDiffusivity_m2__s	ThermalDiffusivity_m2__s
YoungsModulus_Pa	YoungsModulus_Pa
ShearModulus_Pa	ShearModulus_Pa
BulkModulus_Pa	BulkModulus_Pa
PoissonsRatio	PoissonsRatio
Viscosity_Pa_s	Viscosity_Pa_s
HalfLife_s	HalfLife_s
RadioactiveSpecificPower_W__kg	RadioactiveSpecificPower_W__kg
Conductivity_S__m	Conductivity_S__m
Resistivity_Ohm_m	Resistivity_Ohm_m
RelativePermittivity	RelativePermittivity
ThermoelectricSensitivity_V__K	ThermoelectricSensitivity_V__K
RelativePermeability	RelativePermeability
DielectricStrength_V__m	DielectricStrength_V__m
TotalMagneticMoment	TotalMagneticMoment
Remanence_T	Remanence_T
MagneticSusceptibility	MagneticSusceptibility
Coercivity_A__m	Coercivity_A__m
SaturationMagnetization_A__m	SaturationMagnetization_A__m
MagneticSaturationFluxDensity_T	MagneticSaturationFluxDensity_T
BandGap_eV	BandGap_eV
DetonationVelocity_m__s	DetonationVelocity_m__s
EnergyDensity_J__kg	EnergyDensity_J__kg
AdiabaticFlameTemperature_K	AdiabaticFlameTemperature_K
LasingDamageThreshold_W__m2	LasingDamageThreshold_W__m2
TotalEnergy_J	TotalEnergy_J
Efficiency_Percent	Efficiency_Percent
HeatGenerated_W	HeatGenerated_W
PowerGenerated_W	PowerGenerated_W
BackTaper_radians	BackTaper_radians
FrontTaper_radians	FrontTaper_radians
MaxTemperatureAllowed_K	MaxTemperatureAllowed_K
Height_m	Height_m
Width_m	Width_m
TotalSurfaceArea_m2	TotalSurfaceArea_m2
TurningPowerDrain_W	TurningPowerDrain_W
ReloadPower_W	ReloadPower_W
ChargingPower_W	ChargingPower_W
ChargingTime_s	ChargingTime_s
CooldownTime_s	CooldownTime_s
MinimumOverheatTime_s	MinimumOverheatTime_s
MaxDeviationAngle_radians	MaxDeviationAngle_radians
TurningAngularVelocity_radians__s	TurningAngularVelocity_radians__s
ReloadTime_s	ReloadTime_s
StartingAmmo	StartingAmmo
Accuracy_radians	Accuracy_radians
FiringVelocity_km__s	FiringVelocity_km__s

UITheme Default	Default
UITheme Inverted	Inverted
UITheme Martian Red	Martian Red
UITheme Matrix Green	Matrix Green
UITheme Naval Blue	Naval Blue
UITheme Polished Steel	Polished Steel
UITheme Small Text	Small Text
UITheme Small Text Inverted	Small Text Inverted

EmissionSpectrum Hydrogen	Hydrogen
EmissionSpectrum Helium	Helium
EmissionSpectrum Lithium	Lithium
EmissionSpectrum Beryllium	Beryllium
EmissionSpectrum Boron	Boron
EmissionSpectrum Carbon	Carbon
EmissionSpectrum Nitrogen	Nitrogen
EmissionSpectrum Oxygen	Oxygen
EmissionSpectrum Fluorine	Fluorine
EmissionSpectrum Neon	Neon
EmissionSpectrum Sodium	Sodium
EmissionSpectrum Magnesium	Magnesium
EmissionSpectrum Aluminum	Aluminum
EmissionSpectrum Silicon	Silicon
EmissionSpectrum Phosphorus	Phosphorus
EmissionSpectrum Sulfur	Sulfur
EmissionSpectrum Chlorine	Chlorine
EmissionSpectrum Argon	Argon
EmissionSpectrum Potassium	Potassium
EmissionSpectrum Calcium	Calcium
EmissionSpectrum Scanadium	Scanadium
EmissionSpectrum Titanium	Titanium
EmissionSpectrum Vanadium	Vanadium
EmissionSpectrum Chromium	Chromium
EmissionSpectrum Manganese	Manganese
EmissionSpectrum Iron	Iron
EmissionSpectrum Cobalt	Cobalt
EmissionSpectrum Nickel	Nickel
EmissionSpectrum Copper	Copper
EmissionSpectrum Zinc	Zinc
EmissionSpectrum Gallium	Gallium
EmissionSpectrum Germanium	Germanium
EmissionSpectrum Arsenic	Arsenic
EmissionSpectrum Bromine	Bromine
EmissionSpectrum Krypton	Krypton
EmissionSpectrum Rubidium	Rubidium
EmissionSpectrum Strontium	Strontium
EmissionSpectrum Yttrium	Yttrium
EmissionSpectrum Zirconium	Zirconium
EmissionSpectrum Molybdenum	Molybdenum
EmissionSpectrum Technetium	Technetium
EmissionSpectrum Ruthenium	Ruthenium
EmissionSpectrum Rhodium	Rhodium
EmissionSpectrum Palladium	Palladium
EmissionSpectrum Silver	Silver
EmissionSpectrum Cadmium	Cadmium
EmissionSpectrum Indium	Indium
EmissionSpectrum Tin	Tin
EmissionSpectrum Antimony	Antimony
EmissionSpectrum Tellurium	Tellurium
EmissionSpectrum Iodine	Iodine
EmissionSpectrum Xenon	Xenon
EmissionSpectrum Caesium	Caesium
EmissionSpectrum Barium	Barium
EmissionSpectrum Praseodymium	Praseodymium
EmissionSpectrum Neodymium	Neodymium
EmissionSpectrum Samarium	Samarium
EmissionSpectrum Europium	Europium
EmissionSpectrum Gadolinium	Gadolinium
EmissionSpectrum Terbium	Terbium
EmissionSpectrum Dysprosium	Dysprosium
EmissionSpectrum Holmium	Holmium
EmissionSpectrum Erbium	Erbium
EmissionSpectrum Thulium	Thulium
EmissionSpectrum Ytterbium	Ytterbium
EmissionSpectrum Lutetium	Lutetium
EmissionSpectrum Hafnium	Hafnium
EmissionSpectrum Tantalum	Tantalum
EmissionSpectrum Tungsten	Tungsten
EmissionSpectrum Iridium	Iridium
EmissionSpectrum Gold	Gold
EmissionSpectrum Mercury	Mercury
EmissionSpectrum Thallium	Thallium
EmissionSpectrum Lead	Lead
EmissionSpectrum Bismuth	Bismuth
EmissionSpectrum Francium	Francium
EmissionSpectrum Uranium	Uranium

RefractiveIndexSpectrum White	White
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Red	Red
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Yellow	Yellow
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Blue	Blue
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Green	Green
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Purple	Purple
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Orange	Orange
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Teal	Teal
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Aluminum	Aluminum
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Copper	Copper
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Tin	Tin
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Silver	Silver
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Gold	Gold
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Platinum	Platinum
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Nickel	Nickel
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Iron	Iron
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Titanium	Titanium
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Tungsten	Tungsten
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Lead	Lead
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Lithium	Lithium
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Water	Water
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Heavy Water	Heavy Water
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Graphite	Graphite
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Molybdenum	Molybdenum
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Tantalum	Tantalum
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Bismuth	Bismuth
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Rhenium	Rhenium
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Aramid	Aramid
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Beryllium Oxide	Beryllium Oxide
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Boron Nitride	Boron Nitride
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Boron Carbide	Boron Carbide
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Titanium Carbide	Titanium Carbide
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Titanium Nitride	Titanium Nitride
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Fused Quartz	Fused Quartz
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Indium Gallium Arsenide	Indium Gallium Arsenide
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Carbon Nanotube Forest	Carbon Nanotube Forest
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Boron	Boron
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Silicon	Silicon
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Selenium	Selenium
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Silicon Carbide	Silicon Carbide
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Gallium Nitride	Gallium Nitride
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Lead Sulfide	Lead Sulfide
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Cadmium Selenide	Cadmium Selenide
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Cadmium Sulfide	Cadmium Sulfide
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Indium Antimonide	Indium Antimonide
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Diamond	Diamond
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Octogen	Octogen
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Vanadium	Vanadium
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Cobalt	Cobalt
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Uranium	Uranium
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Uranium Oxide	Uranium Oxide
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Aluminum Nitride	Aluminum Nitride
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Aluminum Oxide	Aluminum Oxide
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Silicon Nitride	Silicon Nitride
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Silicon Dioxide	Silicon Dioxide
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Aluminum Oxynitride	Aluminum Oxynitride
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Hafnia	Hafnia
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Hafnium	Hafnium
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Polytetrafluoroethylene	Polytetrafluoroethylene
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Zinc Oxide	Zinc Oxide
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Yttrium Aluminum Garnate	Yttrium Aluminum Garnate
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Styrene-Acrylonitrile	Styrene-Acrylonitrile
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Calcium Carbonate	Calcium Carbonate
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Beryllium	Beryllium
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Magnesium	Magnesium
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Corundum	Corundum
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Gadolinium Gallium Garnet	Gadolinium Gallium Garnet
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Potassium Dihydrogen Phosphate	Potassium Dihydrogen Phosphate
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Potassium Titanyl Phosphate	Potassium Titanyl Phosphate
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Barium Borate	Barium Borate
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Lithium Triborate	Lithium Triborate
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Lithium Niobate	Lithium Niobate
RefractiveIndexSpectrum BK7	BK7
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Silver Gallium Selenide	Silver Gallium Selenide
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Osmium	Osmium
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Iridium	Iridium
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Sodium	Sodium
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Hydrogen	Hydrogen
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Deuterium	Deuterium
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Helium	Helium
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Nitrogen	Nitrogen
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Neon	Neon
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Krypton	Krypton
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Oxygen	Oxygen
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Xenon	Xenon
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Argon	Argon
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Ammonia	Ammonia
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Carbon Dioxide	Carbon Dioxide
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Methane	Methane
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Calcite	Calcite
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Titanium Dioxide	Titanium Dioxide
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Polyethylene	Polyethylene
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Silica Aerogel	Silica Aerogel
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Yttrium Lithium Fluoride	Yttrium Lithium Fluoride
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Mercury	Mercury
RefractiveIndexSpectrum Zirconium	Zirconium

Element Hydrogen	Hydrogen
Element Deuterium	Deuterium
Element Helium-3	Helium-3
Element Helium	Helium
Element Lithium-6	Lithium-6
Element Lithium	Lithium
Element Tritium	Tritium
Element Beryllium	Beryllium
Element Boron	Boron
Element Carbon	Carbon
Element Nitrogen	Nitrogen
Element Oxygen	Oxygen
Element Fluorine	Fluorine
Element Neon	Neon
Element Sodium	Sodium
Element Magnesium	Magnesium
Element Aluminum	Aluminum
Element Silicon	Silicon
Element Phosphorus	Phosphorus
Element Sulfur	Sulfur
Element Chlorine	Chlorine
Element Argon	Argon
Element Potassium	Potassium
Element Calcium	Calcium
Element Scandium	Scandium
Element Titanium	Titanium
Element Vanadium	Vanadium
Element Chromium	Chromium
Element Manganese	Manganese
Element Iron	Iron
Element Cobalt	Cobalt
Element Cobalt-60	Cobalt-60
Element Nickel	Nickel
Element Copper	Copper
Element Zinc	Zinc
Element Gallium	Gallium
Element Germanium	Germanium
Element Arsenic	Arsenic
Element Selenium	Selenium
Element Bromine	Bromine
Element Krypton	Krypton
Element Rubidium	Rubidium
Element Strontium	Strontium
Element Yttrium	Yttrium
Element Zirconium	Zirconium
Element Niobium	Niobium
Element Molybdenum	Molybdenum
Element Molybdenum-98	Molybdenum-98
Element Ruthenium	Ruthenium
Element Rhodium	Rhodium
Element Palladium	Palladium
Element Silver	Silver
Element Cadmium	Cadmium
Element Indium	Indium
Element Tin	Tin
Element Antimony	Antimony
Element Tellurium	Tellurium
Element Iodine	Iodine
Element Xenon	Xenon
Element Caesium	Caesium
Element Barium	Barium
Element Lanthanum	Lanthanum
Element Cerium	Cerium
Element Praseodymium	Praseodymium
Element Neodymium	Neodymium
Element Promethium	Promethium
Element Samarium	Samarium
Element Europium	Europium
Element Gadolinium	Gadolinium
Element Gadolinium-157	Gadolinium-157
Element Terbium	Terbium
Element Dysprosium	Dysprosium
Element Holmium	Holmium
Element Erbium	Erbium
Element Thulium	Thulium
Element Ytterbium	Ytterbium
Element Lutetium	Lutetium
Element Hafnium	Hafnium
Element Tantalum	Tantalum
Element Tungsten	Tungsten
Element Rhenium	Rhenium
Element Osmium	Osmium
Element Iridium	Iridium
Element Iridium-192	Iridium-192
Element Platinum	Platinum
Element Gold	Gold
Element Mercury	Mercury
Element Thallium	Thallium
Element Lead	Lead
Element Bismuth	Bismuth
Element Polonium	Polonium
Element Astatine	Astatine
Element Francium	Francium
Element Thorium-232	Thorium-232
Element Protactinium	Protactinium
Element Protactinium-233	Protactinium-233
Element Uranium-238	Uranium-238
Element Uranium-233	Uranium-233
Element Uranium-234	Uranium-234
Element Uranium-235	Uranium-235
Element Uranium-236	Uranium-236
Element Uranium-239	Uranium-239
Element Actinium-227	Actinium-227
Element Promethium-147	Promethium-147
Element Technetium	Technetium
Element Technetium-99	Technetium-99
Element Radium	Radium
Element Radon	Radon
Element Polonium-210	Polonium-210
Element Neptunium-237	Neptunium-237
Element Neptunium-239	Neptunium-239
Element Plutonium-244	Plutonium-244
Element Plutonium-240	Plutonium-240
Element Plutonium-238	Plutonium-238
Element Plutonium-239	Plutonium-239
Element Plutonium-241	Plutonium-241
Element Plutonium-242	Plutonium-242
Element Plutonium-243	Plutonium-243
Element Strontium-90	Strontium-90
Element Americium-243	Americium-243
Element Americium-241	Americium-241
Element Americium-242m	Americium-242m
Element Curium-247	Curium-247
Element Curium-242	Curium-242
Element Curium-243	Curium-243
Element Curium-244	Curium-244
Element Curium-245	Curium-245
Element Berkelium	Berkelium
Element Californium	Californium
Element Einsteinium	Einsteinium
Element Fermium	Fermium
Element Mendelevium	Mendelevium
Element Nobelium	Nobelium
Element Lawrencium	Lawrencium
Element Rutherfordium	Rutherfordium
Element Dubnium	Dubnium
Element Seaborgium	Seaborgium
Element Bohrium	Bohrium
Element Hassium	Hassium
Element Meitnerium	Meitnerium
Element Darmstadtium	Darmstadtium
Element Roentgenium	Roentgenium
Element Copernicium	Copernicium

Material Monatomic Carbon	Monatomic Carbon
Material Monatomic Chlorine	Monatomic Chlorine
Material Monatomic Deuterium	Monatomic Deuterium
Material Monatomic Fluorine	Monatomic Fluorine
Material Monatomic Hydrogen	Monatomic Hydrogen
Material Monatomic Nitrogen	Monatomic Nitrogen
Material Monatomic Oxygen	Monatomic Oxygen
Material Boron Nitride	Boron Nitride
Material Aluminum	Aluminum
Material Beryllium	Beryllium
Material Calcium	Calcium
Material Austenitic Stainless Steel	Austenitic Stainless Steel
Material Martensitic Stainless Steel	Martensitic Stainless Steel
Material Ferritic Stainless Steel	Ferritic Stainless Steel
Material Maraging Steel	Maraging Steel
Material Carbon Steel	Carbon Steel
Material Nickel Chromium Iron	Nickel Chromium Iron
Material Nickel Chromium Cobalt	Nickel Chromium Cobalt
Material Titanium Aluminum Tin	Titanium Aluminum Tin
Material Cobalt Chromium Nickel	Cobalt Chromium Nickel
Material Aluminum Silicon Magnesium	Aluminum Silicon Magnesium
Material Constantan	Constantan
Material Vanadium Chromium Steel	Vanadium Chromium Steel
Material Aluminum Copper Lithium	Aluminum Copper Lithium
Material Aluminum Zinc Magnesium	Aluminum Zinc Magnesium
Material Zirconium Copper	Zirconium Copper
Material Beryllium Copper	Beryllium Copper
Material Nickel Iron Molybdenum	Nickel Iron Molybdenum
Material Iron Silicon Nanoalloy	Iron Silicon Nanoalloy
Material Magnetic Metal Glass	Magnetic Metal Glass
Material Aluminum Nickel Cobalt	Aluminum Nickel Cobalt
Material Tungsten Rhenium	Tungsten Rhenium
Material Platinum Molybdenum	Platinum Molybdenum
Material Gamma Titanium Aluminide	Gamma Titanium Aluminide
Material Alpha-2 Titanium Aluminide	Alpha-2 Titanium Aluminide
Material Beta Titanium	Beta Titanium
Material Neodymium Iron Boron	Neodymium Iron Boron
Material Samarium Cobalt	Samarium Cobalt
Material Aluminum Beryllium	Aluminum Beryllium
Material Amorphous Zirconium Steel	Amorphous Zirconium Steel
Material Magnesium Aluminum Zinc	Magnesium Aluminum Zinc
Material Silicon Carbide	Silicon Carbide
Material Silicon Nitride	Silicon Nitride
Material Silicon Dioxide	Silicon Dioxide
Material Titanium Dioxide	Titanium Dioxide
Material Titanium Carbide	Titanium Carbide
Material Titanium Nitride	Titanium Nitride
Material Titanium Diboride	Titanium Diboride
Material Tungsten Carbide	Tungsten Carbide
Material Aluminum Oxide	Aluminum Oxide
Material Aluminum Nitride	Aluminum Nitride
Material Aluminum Oxynitride	Aluminum Oxynitride
Material Boron Carbide	Boron Carbide
Material Beryllium Oxide	Beryllium Oxide
Material Reinforced Carbon-Carbon	Reinforced Carbon-Carbon
Material Tantalum Carbide	Tantalum Carbide
Material Hafnium Carbide	Hafnium Carbide
Material Tantalum Hafnium Carbide	Tantalum Hafnium Carbide
Material Hafnia	Hafnia
Material Zinc Oxide	Zinc Oxide
Material Ceramic Matrix Composite	Ceramic Matrix Composite
Material Zirconium Carbide	Zirconium Carbide
Material Nitrocellulose	Nitrocellulose
Material Octogen	Octogen
Material Cyclonite	Cyclonite
Material Nitroglycerin	Nitroglycerin
Material Barium Nitrate	Barium Nitrate
Material PETN	PETN
Material TNT	TNT
Material RP-1	RP-1
Material Strontium Nitrate	Strontium Nitrate
Material Potassium Chloride	Potassium Chloride
Material Barium Oxide	Barium Oxide
Material Sodium Bicarbonate	Sodium Bicarbonate
Material Sodium Chloride	Sodium Chloride
Material Copper(I) Chloride	Copper(I) Chloride
Material Copper(II) Chloride	Copper(II) Chloride
Material Copper Carbonate	Copper Carbonate
Material Copper(II) Acetoarsenite	Copper(II) Acetoarsenite
Material Silica Aerogel	Silica Aerogel
Material Graphite Aerogel	Graphite Aerogel
Material Nickel Phosphorus Microlattice	Nickel Phosphorus Microlattice
Material Chlorotetrafluoroethane	Chlorotetrafluoroethane
Material Trichlorofluoromethane	Trichlorofluoromethane
Material Alumina Nanofluid	Alumina Nanofluid
Material Ethylene Glycol	Ethylene Glycol
Material Sodium Potassium	Sodium Potassium
Material FLiNaK	FLiNaK
Material Nd:YAG	Nd:YAG
Material Nd:YLF	Nd:YLF
Material Nd:GGG	Nd:GGG
Material Ruby	Ruby
Material Erbium:Silica Fiber	Erbium:Silica Fiber
Material Ytterbium:Silica Fiber	Ytterbium:Silica Fiber
Material Thulium:Silica Fiber	Thulium:Silica Fiber
Material Titanium:Sapphire	Titanium:Sapphire
Material Sapphire	Sapphire
Material Mica	Mica
Material Fused Quartz	Fused Quartz
Material Diamond	Diamond
Material Indium Gallium Arsenide	Indium Gallium Arsenide
Material Gallium Nitride	Gallium Nitride
Material Lead Sulfide	Lead Sulfide
Material Cadmium Selenide	Cadmium Selenide
Material Indium Antimonide	Indium Antimonide
Material Silver Gallium Selenide	Silver Gallium Selenide
Material Potassium Dihydrogen Phosphate	Potassium Dihydrogen Phosphate
Material Potassium Titanyl Phosphate	Potassium Titanyl Phosphate
Material Barium Borate	Barium Borate
Material Lithium Triborate	Lithium Triborate
Material Lithium Niobate	Lithium Niobate
Material Borosilicate Glass	Borosilicate Glass
Material Aramid Fiber	Aramid Fiber
Material Ceramic Oxide Fiber	Ceramic Oxide Fiber
Material PBO Fiber	PBO Fiber
Material Para-Aramid Fiber	Para-Aramid Fiber
Material Liquid Crystal Polymer Fiber	Liquid Crystal Polymer Fiber
Material Nitrile Rubber	Nitrile Rubber
Material Spider Silk	Spider Silk
Material S-Glass Composite	S-Glass Composite
Material Basalt Fiber Composite	Basalt Fiber Composite
Material Boron Filament	Boron Filament
Material Depleted Uranium	Depleted Uranium
Material U-235	U-235
Material U-233	U-233
Material Depleted Uranium Dioxide	Depleted Uranium Dioxide
Material U-235 Dioxide	U-235 Dioxide
Material U-233 Dioxide	U-233 Dioxide
Material Pu-244	Pu-244
Material Pu-240	Pu-240
Material Pu-239	Pu-239
Material Pu-241	Pu-241
Material Pu-238	Pu-238
Material Pu-240 Dioxide	Pu-240 Dioxide
Material Pu-238 Dioxide	Pu-238 Dioxide
Material Th-232	Th-232
Material Am-243	Am-243
Material Am-241	Am-241
Material Am-242m	Am-242m
Material Np-237	Np-237
Material Np-237 Dioxide	Np-237 Dioxide
Material Water	Water
Material Semiheavy Water	Semiheavy Water
Material Heavy Water	Heavy Water
Material Nitrogen	Nitrogen
Material Nitrogen Dioxide	Nitrogen Dioxide
Material Nitric Oxide	Nitric Oxide
Material Nitrous Oxide	Nitrous Oxide
Material Carbon Monoxide	Carbon Monoxide
Material Carbon Dioxide	Carbon Dioxide
Material Oxygen	Oxygen
Material Hydrogen	Hydrogen
Material Hydrogen Deuteride	Hydrogen Deuteride
Material Hydrogen Peroxide	Hydrogen Peroxide
Material Fluorine	Fluorine
Material Hydrogen Fluoride	Hydrogen Fluoride
Material Nitrogen Trifluoride	Nitrogen Trifluoride
Material Tetrafluorohydrazine	Tetrafluorohydrazine
Material Hydrazine	Hydrazine
Material Ammonia	Ammonia
Material Sulfur Dioxide	Sulfur Dioxide
Material Chlorine	Chlorine
Material Hydrogen Chloride	Hydrogen Chloride
Material Dinitrogen Tetroxide	Dinitrogen Tetroxide
Material Nitric Acid	Nitric Acid
Material Monomethylhydrazine	Monomethylhydrazine
Material Unsymmetrical Dimethylhydrazine	Unsymmetrical Dimethylhydrazine
Material Deuterium	Deuterium
Material Tritium	Tritium
Material Lithium-6	Lithium-6
Material Helium-3	Helium-3
Material Iron	Iron
Material Tin	Tin
Material Lithium	Lithium
Material Tungsten	Tungsten
Material Titanium	Titanium
Material Copper	Copper
Material Silver	Silver
Material Gold	Gold
Material Mercury	Mercury
Material Platinum	Platinum
Material Nickel	Nickel
Material Cobalt	Cobalt
Material Lead	Lead
Material Tantalum	Tantalum
Material Bismuth	Bismuth
Material Rhenium	Rhenium
Material Zinc	Zinc
Material Magnesium	Magnesium
Material Osmium	Osmium
Material Iridium	Iridium
Material Sodium	Sodium
Material Potassium	Potassium
Material Cadmium	Cadmium
Material Molybdenum	Molybdenum
Material Samarium	Samarium
Material Gadolinium	Gadolinium
Material Gadolinium-157	Gadolinium-157
Material Neodymium	Neodymium
Material Caesium	Caesium
Material Helium	Helium
Material Neon	Neon
Material Argon	Argon
Material Krypton	Krypton
Material Xenon	Xenon
Material Radon	Radon
Material Graphite	Graphite
Material Pyrolytic Carbon	Pyrolytic Carbon
Material Amorphous Carbon	Amorphous Carbon
Material Boron	Boron
Material Silicon	Silicon
Material Selenium	Selenium
Material Sulfur	Sulfur
Material Phosphorus	Phosphorus
Material Methane	Methane
Material Ethane	Ethane
Material Propane	Propane
Material Butane	Butane
Material Pentane	Pentane
Material Decane	Decane
Material Tetrafluoromethane	Tetrafluoromethane
Material Polytetrafluoroethylene	Polytetrafluoroethylene
Material Nitromethane	Nitromethane
Material Ethylene Oxide	Ethylene Oxide
Material Polyethylene	Polyethylene
Material UHMWPE	UHMWPE
Material UHMWPE Fiber	UHMWPE Fiber
Material Biaxially Oriented Polypropylene	Biaxially Oriented Polypropylene
Material Human	Human
Material Food	Food
Material Cargo	Cargo
Material Proton Mass	Proton Mass
Material Radioactive Waste	Radioactive Waste
Material Strontium-90	Strontium-90
Material Strontium-90 Titanate	Strontium-90 Titanate
Material Polonium-210	Polonium-210
Material Curium-242	Curium-242
Material Promethium-147	Promethium-147
Material Iridium-192	Iridium-192
Material Cobalt-60	Cobalt-60
Material Actinium-227	Actinium-227
Material Technetium-99	Technetium-99
Material Olivine	Olivine
Material Wollastonite	Wollastonite
Material Plagioclase	Plagioclase
Material Calcium Phosphate	Calcium Phosphate
Material Troilite	Troilite
Material Tetrataenite	Tetrataenite
Material Enstatite	Enstatite
Material Ferrosilite	Ferrosilite
Material Fayalite	Fayalite
Material Chromite	Chromite
Material Sodium Feldspar	Sodium Feldspar
Material Wustite	Wustite
Material Magnetite	Magnetite
Material Hematite	Hematite
Material Tenorite	Tenorite
Material Phyllosilicate	Phyllosilicate
Material Diopside	Diopside
Material Hedenbergite	Hedenbergite
Material Calcite	Calcite
Material Kamacite	Kamacite

ChemicalReaction LOX LH2	LOX LH2
ChemicalReaction LOX RP-1	LOX RP-1
ChemicalReaction LOX Methane	LOX Methane
ChemicalReaction LOX Ethane	LOX Ethane
ChemicalReaction LOX Propane	LOX Propane
ChemicalReaction LOX Butane	LOX Butane
ChemicalReaction LOX Pentane	LOX Pentane
ChemicalReaction LOX Decane	LOX Decane
ChemicalReaction LOX Hydrazine	LOX Hydrazine
ChemicalReaction Fluorine Hydrogen	Fluorine Hydrogen
ChemicalReaction Fluorine Methane	Fluorine Methane
ChemicalReaction Fluorine Ammonia	Fluorine Ammonia
ChemicalReaction Nitrous Oxide RP-1	Nitrous Oxide RP-1
ChemicalReaction Hydrogen Peroxide RP-1	Hydrogen Peroxide RP-1
ChemicalReaction Iron Thermite	Iron Thermite
ChemicalReaction Copper Thermite	Copper Thermite
ChemicalReaction Silicon Thermite	Silicon Thermite
ChemicalReaction Iron Nanothermite	Iron Nanothermite
ChemicalReaction Copper Nanothermite	Copper Nanothermite
ChemicalReaction Silicon Nanothermite	Silicon Nanothermite
ChemicalReaction Chlorine Hydrogen	Chlorine Hydrogen
ChemicalReaction Fluorine RP-1	Fluorine RP-1
ChemicalReaction NTO Hydrazine	NTO Hydrazine
ChemicalReaction NTO MMH	NTO MMH
ChemicalReaction NTO UDMH	NTO UDMH
ChemicalReaction WFNA Hydrazine	WFNA Hydrazine
ChemicalReaction Fluorine Hydrazine	Fluorine Hydrazine
ChemicalReaction Nitrocellulose	Nitrocellulose
ChemicalReaction Octogen	Octogen
ChemicalReaction Cyclonite	Cyclonite
ChemicalReaction Nitroglycerin	Nitroglycerin
ChemicalReaction Barium Nitrate	Barium Nitrate
ChemicalReaction PETN	PETN
ChemicalReaction TNT	TNT
ChemicalReaction Nitromethane	Nitromethane
ChemicalReaction Ethylene Oxide	Ethylene Oxide
ChemicalReaction Hydrazine	Hydrazine
ChemicalReaction Hydrogen Peroxide	Hydrogen Peroxide
ChemicalReaction Nitrous Oxide	Nitrous Oxide

FusionReaction Deuterium Tritium	Deuterium Tritium
FusionReaction Deuterium Deuterium	Deuterium Deuterium
FusionReaction Deuterium Helium	Deuterium Helium
FusionReaction Tritium Tritium	Tritium Tritium
FusionReaction Helium Helium	Helium Helium
FusionReaction Proton Boron	Proton Boron
FusionReaction Proton Lithium-7	Proton Lithium-7
FusionReaction Proton Lithium-6	Proton Lithium-6
FusionReaction Deuterium Lithium-6	Deuterium Lithium-6

MilitaryDoctrine Aggressive	Aggressive
MilitaryDoctrine Balanced	Balanced
MilitaryDoctrine Cautious	Cautious
MilitaryDoctrine Cunning	Cunning
MilitaryDoctrine Defensive	Defensive
MilitaryDoctrine Ranged	Ranged
MilitaryDoctrine Reckless	Reckless
MilitaryDoctrine Striker	Striker
MilitaryDoctrine Conservative	Conservative
MilitaryDoctrine Launcher	Launcher

AsteroidSpectralType C	C
AsteroidSpectralType B	B
AsteroidSpectralType F	F
AsteroidSpectralType G	G
AsteroidSpectralType S	S
AsteroidSpectralType X	X
AsteroidSpectralType M	M
AsteroidSpectralType E	E
AsteroidSpectralType P	P
AsteroidSpectralType A	A
AsteroidSpectralType D	D
AsteroidSpectralType T	T
AsteroidSpectralType Q	Q
AsteroidSpectralType R	R
AsteroidSpectralType V	V

CelestialBody Sol	Sol
CelestialBody Mercury	Mercury
CelestialBody Venus	Venus
CelestialBody Earth	Earth
CelestialBody Luna	Luna
CelestialBody Itokawa	Itokawa
CelestialBody Eros	Eros
CelestialBody Mars	Mars
CelestialBody Phobos	Phobos
CelestialBody Deimos	Deimos
CelestialBody Vesta	Vesta
CelestialBody Iris	Iris
CelestialBody Massalia	Massalia
CelestialBody Astraea	Astraea
CelestialBody Egeria	Egeria
CelestialBody Eunomia	Eunomia
CelestialBody Mathilde	Mathilde
CelestialBody Ganymed	Ganymed
CelestialBody Juno	Juno
CelestialBody Eugenia	Eugenia
CelestialBody Petit-Prince	Petit-Prince
CelestialBody Paranal	Paranal
CelestialBody Ceres	Ceres
CelestialBody Thisbe	Thisbe
CelestialBody Herculina	Herculina
CelestialBody Pallas	Pallas
CelestialBody Kleopatra	Kleopatra
CelestialBody Cleoselene	Cleoselene
CelestialBody Alexhelios	Alexhelios
CelestialBody Ida	Ida
CelestialBody Dactyl	Dactyl
CelestialBody Kalliope	Kalliope
CelestialBody Linus	Linus
CelestialBody Psyche	Psyche
CelestialBody Interamnia	Interamnia
CelestialBody Europa (Asteroid)	Europa (Asteroid)
CelestialBody Themis	Themis
CelestialBody Hygiea	Hygiea
CelestialBody Euphrosyne	Euphrosyne
CelestialBody Davida	Davida
CelestialBody Cybele	Cybele
CelestialBody Sylvia	Sylvia
CelestialBody Remus	Remus
CelestialBody Romulus	Romulus
CelestialBody Jupiter	Jupiter
CelestialBody Metis	Metis
CelestialBody Adrastea	Adrastea
CelestialBody Amalthea	Amalthea
CelestialBody Thebe	Thebe
CelestialBody Io	Io
CelestialBody Europa	Europa
CelestialBody Ganymede	Ganymede
CelestialBody Callisto	Callisto
CelestialBody Hektor	Hektor
CelestialBody Hektor I	Hektor I
CelestialBody Patroclus	Patroclus
CelestialBody Menoetius	Menoetius
CelestialBody Saturn	Saturn
CelestialBody Pan	Pan
CelestialBody Daphnis	Daphnis
CelestialBody Atlas	Atlas
CelestialBody Prometheus	Prometheus
CelestialBody Pandora	Pandora
CelestialBody Epimetheus	Epimetheus
CelestialBody Janus	Janus
CelestialBody Aegaeon	Aegaeon
CelestialBody Mimas	Mimas
CelestialBody Methone	Methone
CelestialBody Anthe	Anthe
CelestialBody Pallene	Pallene
CelestialBody Enceladus	Enceladus
CelestialBody Tethys	Tethys
CelestialBody Telesto	Telesto
CelestialBody Calypso	Calypso
CelestialBody Polydeuces	Polydeuces
CelestialBody Dione	Dione
CelestialBody Helene	Helene
CelestialBody Rhea	Rhea
CelestialBody Titan	Titan
CelestialBody Hyperion	Hyperion
CelestialBody Iapetus	Iapetus
CelestialBody Phoebe	Phoebe
CelestialBody Uranus	Uranus
CelestialBody Cordelia	Cordelia
CelestialBody Ophelia	Ophelia
CelestialBody Bianca	Bianca
CelestialBody Cressida	Cressida
CelestialBody Desdemona	Desdemona
CelestialBody Juliet	Juliet
CelestialBody Portia	Portia
CelestialBody Rosalind	Rosalind
CelestialBody Cupid	Cupid
CelestialBody Belinda	Belinda
CelestialBody Perdita	Perdita
CelestialBody Puck	Puck
CelestialBody Mab	Mab
CelestialBody Miranda	Miranda
CelestialBody Ariel	Ariel
CelestialBody Umbriel	Umbriel
CelestialBody Titania	Titania
CelestialBody Oberon	Oberon
CelestialBody Neptune	Neptune
CelestialBody Naiad	Naiad
CelestialBody Thalassa	Thalassa
CelestialBody Despina	Despina
CelestialBody Galatea	Galatea
CelestialBody Larissa	Larissa
CelestialBody Polyphemus	Polyphemus
CelestialBody Proteus	Proteus
CelestialBody Triton	Triton
CelestialBody Nereid	Nereid
CelestialBody Pluto	Pluto
CelestialBody Charon	Charon
CelestialBody Styx	Styx
CelestialBody Nix	Nix
CelestialBody Kerberos	Kerberos
CelestialBody Hydra	Hydra
CelestialBody Haumea	Haumea
CelestialBody Hi'iaka	Hi'iaka
CelestialBody Namaka	Namaka
CelestialBody Makemake	Makemake
CelestialBody Eris	Eris
CelestialBody Dysnomia	Dysnomia

CraftBlueprint Beamcraft	Beamcraft
CraftBlueprint Corsair	Corsair
CraftBlueprint Corvette	Corvette
CraftBlueprint Cutter	Cutter
CraftBlueprint Escort Carrier	Escort Carrier
CraftBlueprint Fleet Carrier	Fleet Carrier
CraftBlueprint Gunship	Gunship
CraftBlueprint Gunskiff	Gunskiff
CraftBlueprint Hiveship	Hiveship
CraftBlueprint Laser Frigate	Laser Frigate
CraftBlueprint Laser Skiff	Laser Skiff
CraftBlueprint Marauder	Marauder
CraftBlueprint Missile Schooner	Missile Schooner
CraftBlueprint Orbital Attack Craft	Orbital Attack Craft
CraftBlueprint Orbital Defense Craft	Orbital Defense Craft
CraftBlueprint Patrol Ship	Patrol Ship
CraftBlueprint Phalanx	Phalanx
CraftBlueprint Privateer	Privateer
CraftBlueprint Raider	Raider
CraftBlueprint Ranger	Ranger
CraftBlueprint Sentinel	Sentinel
CraftBlueprint Siloship	Siloship
CraftBlueprint Skirmisher	Skirmisher
CraftBlueprint Solar Lance	Solar Lance
CraftBlueprint Support Carrier	Support Carrier
CraftBlueprint Tumbler	Tumbler
CraftBlueprint Belt Trawler	Belt Trawler
CraftBlueprint Cargo Freighter	Cargo Freighter
CraftBlueprint Decane Tanker	Decane Tanker
CraftBlueprint Hydrogen Tanker	Hydrogen Tanker
CraftBlueprint Large Methane Tanker	Large Methane Tanker
CraftBlueprint Passenger Liner	Passenger Liner
CraftBlueprint Research Craft	Research Craft
CraftBlueprint Scout	Scout
CraftBlueprint Small Methane Tanker	Small Methane Tanker
CraftBlueprint Water Tanker	Water Tanker
CraftBlueprint Beam Drone	Beam Drone
CraftBlueprint Hellfire Drone	Hellfire Drone
CraftBlueprint Lancer Drone	Lancer Drone
CraftBlueprint Shooting Star	Shooting Star
CraftBlueprint Stinger Drone	Stinger Drone
CraftBlueprint Devastator Nuclear Missile	Devastator Nuclear Missile
CraftBlueprint Sniper Nuclear Missile	Sniper Nuclear Missile
CraftBlueprint Flak Missile	Flak Missile
CraftBlueprint Nuclear Gyrojet	Nuclear Gyrojet
CraftBlueprint Staged Striker Nuclear Missile	Staged Striker Nuclear Missile
CraftBlueprint Striker Nuclear Missile	Striker Nuclear Missile
CraftBlueprint Cargo Station	Cargo Station
CraftBlueprint Methane Depot	Methane Depot
CraftBlueprint Laser Station	Laser Station
CraftBlueprint Research Station	Research Station
CraftBlueprint Sensor Station	Sensor Station
CraftBlueprint Flak	Flak
CraftBlueprint HE	HE
CraftBlueprint Large (300 MW) Decoy	Large (300 MW) Decoy
CraftBlueprint Small (100 MW) Decoy	Small (100 MW) Decoy
CraftBlueprint Tiny (10 MW) Decoy	Tiny (10 MW) Decoy
CraftBlueprint Nuke	Nuke
RemoteControlModule Default Remote Control	Default Remote Control
RemoteControlModule Aggressive Remote Control	Aggressive Remote Control
RemoteControlModule Conservative Remote Control	Conservative Remote Control
FuseModule No Trigger Fuse	No Trigger Fuse
FuseModule Engine Trigger Fuse	Engine Trigger Fuse
RailgunModule 13.0 MW 11mm Autofire Railgun	13.0 MW 11mm Autofire Railgun
RailgunModule 39.0 MW 11mm Scatter Railgun	39.0 MW 11mm Scatter Railgun
CoilgunModule 13.0 MW 3mm Sniper Coilgun	13.0 MW 3mm Sniper Coilgun
CoilgunModule 13.0 MW Flak Coilgun	13.0 MW Flak Coilgun
CoilgunModule 39.0 MW 34mm Heavy Coilgun	39.0 MW 34mm Heavy Coilgun
ComparisonModel Human	Human
ComparisonModel Space Shuttle Orbiter	Space Shuttle Orbiter

Preferences Interface	Interface
Preferences Audio	Audio
Preferences Graphics	Graphics
Preferences Gameplay	Gameplay
GameGraphicsSettings Fullscreen	Fullscreen
GameGraphicsSettings ScreenScaling_Percent	ScreenScaling_Percent
GameGraphicsSettings VSync	VSync
GameGraphicsSettings Brightness_Percent	Brightness_Percent
GameGraphicsSettings FieldOfView_degrees	FieldOfView_degrees
GameGraphicsSettings Textures	Textures
GameGraphicsSettings Lighting	Lighting
GameGraphicsSettings PostProcessing	PostProcessing
GameGraphicsSettings DisableCustomCursor	DisableCustomCursor
LightingSettings ShadowMapQuality	ShadowMapQuality
LightingSettings RadiatorLighting	RadiatorLighting
LightingSettings BounceLighting	BounceLighting
TextureSettings ArmorTextureQuality	ArmorTextureQuality
TextureSettings ParallaxOcclusionMapQuality	ParallaxOcclusionMapQuality
TextureSettings TextureSelfShadowingQuality	TextureSelfShadowingQuality
PostProcessSettings Antialiasing	Antialiasing
PostProcessSettings DrawDiffractionSpikes	DrawDiffractionSpikes
PostProcessSettings BloomAmount	BloomAmount
PostProcessSettings RenderDiffractionShimmer	RenderDiffractionShimmer
AudioSettings MasterVolume_Percent	MasterVolume_Percent
AudioSettings MusicVolume_Percent	MusicVolume_Percent
AudioSettings InterfaceVolume_Percent	InterfaceVolume_Percent
AudioSettings EffectsVolume_Percent	EffectsVolume_Percent
InterfaceSettings Language	Language
InterfaceSettings VerboseTooltips	VerboseTooltips
InterfaceSettings GameTheme	GameTheme
InterfaceSettings InvertMouseRotation	InvertMouseRotation
InterfaceSettings LockCameraToPlane	LockCameraToPlane
InterfaceSettings ProjectOrbitsOnToSelectedPlane	ProjectOrbitsOnToSelectedPlane
InterfaceSettings ProjectTrajectoryOnToReferenceFrame	ProjectTrajectoryOnToReferenceFrame
InterfaceSettings UseMouseDragForThrustManipulation	UseMouseDragForThrustManipulation
InterfaceSettings UseMultiaxialThrustManipulation	UseMultiaxialThrustManipulation
InterfaceSettings ShowDetailedDesignList	ShowDetailedDesignList
InterfaceSettings ShowCelestialGridWhenRotating	ShowCelestialGridWhenRotating
InterfaceSettings ShowLagrangePoints	ShowLagrangePoints
InterfaceSettings DisableUnitGrouping	DisableUnitGrouping
InterfaceSettings GroupUnitsByFive	GroupUnitsByFive
InterfaceSettings GroupAllSimilarUnits	GroupAllSimilarUnits
GameplaySettings PauseCombatAtStart	PauseCombatAtStart
GameplaySettings ShowCombatNotifications	ShowCombatNotifications
GameplaySettings ShipsMarqueeSelect	ShipsMarqueeSelect
GameplaySettings ModuleAdvancedOptionsOpen	ModuleAdvancedOptionsOpen
AmmoModule SuppliedModule	SuppliedModule
AmmoModule AmmoBay	AmmoBay
AmmoModule ArmorComposition	ArmorComposition
AmmoModule ArmorThickness_m	ArmorThickness_m
AmmoBaySubModule Capacity	Capacity
AmmoBaySubModule Stacks	Stacks
MassProjectileSubModule Composition	Composition
MassProjectileSubModule BoreRadius_m	BoreRadius_m
MassProjectileSubModule Mass_kg	Mass_kg
MassProjectileSubModule Tracer	Tracer
MassProjectileSubModule Payload	Payload
BallisticTubeSubModule Composition	Composition
BallisticTubeSubModule Length_m	Length_m
BallisticTubeSubModule Thickness_m	Thickness_m
BarrelArmorSubModule Composition	Composition
BarrelArmorSubModule Thickness_m	Thickness_m
SolidPropellantSubModule Composition	Composition
SolidPropellantSubModule Mass_kg	Mass_kg
SolidPropellantSubModule GrainRadius_m	GrainRadius_m
ConventionalGunModule Barrel	Barrel
ConventionalGunModule BarrelArmor	BarrelArmor
ConventionalGunModule Propellant	Propellant
ConventionalGunModule Projectile	Projectile
ConventionalGunModule Loader	Loader
ConventionalGunModule ExternalMount	ExternalMount
ConventionalGunModule InternalMount	InternalMount
ConventionalGunModule Turret	Turret
ConventionalGunModule AttachedAmmoBay	AttachedAmmoBay
ConventionalGunModule TargetsShips	TargetsShips
ConventionalGunModule TargetsShots	TargetsShots
RailsSubModule Composition	Composition
RailsSubModule Thickness_m	Thickness_m
RailsSubModule Length_m	Length_m
RailgunModule PowerConsumption_W	PowerConsumption_W
RailgunModule Capacitor	Capacitor
RailgunModule Rails	Rails
RailgunModule BarrelArmor	BarrelArmor
RailgunModule Armature	Armature
RailgunModule Loader	Loader
RailgunModule ExternalMount	ExternalMount
RailgunModule InternalMount	InternalMount
RailgunModule Turret	Turret
RailgunModule AttachedAmmoBay	AttachedAmmoBay
RailgunModule TargetsShips	TargetsShips
RailgunModule TargetsShots	TargetsShots
SolenoidSubModule Composition	Composition
SolenoidSubModule WireRadius_m	WireRadius_m
SolenoidSubModule NumberOfTurns	NumberOfTurns
SolenoidSubModule NumberOfLayers	NumberOfLayers
CoilgunModule PowerConsumption_W	PowerConsumption_W
CoilgunModule Capacitor	Capacitor
CoilgunModule Coil	Coil
CoilgunModule NumberOfStages	NumberOfStages
CoilgunModule BarrelArmor	BarrelArmor
CoilgunModule Armature	Armature
CoilgunModule Loader	Loader
CoilgunModule ExternalMount	ExternalMount
CoilgunModule InternalMount	InternalMount
CoilgunModule Turret	Turret
CoilgunModule AttachedAmmoBay	AttachedAmmoBay
CoilgunModule TargetsShips	TargetsShips
CoilgunModule TargetsShots	TargetsShots
LensSubModule Composition	Composition
NonlinearOpticSubModule Composition	Composition
FrequencyDoublerSubModule NonlinearOptic	NonlinearOptic
FrequencyDoublerSubModule OpticLength_m	OpticLength_m
FrequencyDoublerSubModule OpticRadius_m	OpticRadius_m
ArcLampPumpSubModule GasComposition	GasComposition
ArcLampPumpSubModule EnvelopeComposition	EnvelopeComposition
ArcLampPumpSubModule PowerSupplied_W	PowerSupplied_W
ArcLampPumpSubModule Radius_m	Radius_m
ArcLampPumpSubModule CavityWallComposition	CavityWallComposition
ArcLampPumpSubModule CavityCoolantComposition	CavityCoolantComposition
ArcLampPumpSubModule CavitySemimajorAxis_m	CavitySemimajorAxis_m
ArcLampPumpSubModule CavitySemiminorAxis_m	CavitySemiminorAxis_m
FixedLaserMountSubModule ArmorComposition	ArmorComposition
FixedLaserMountSubModule ArmorThickness_m	ArmorThickness_m
LaserModule ArcLamp	ArcLamp
LaserModule GainMedium	GainMedium
LaserModule OpticalNodes	OpticalNodes
LaserModule LasingRodRadius_m	LasingRodRadius_m
LaserModule Mirror	Mirror
LaserModule OutputCoupler	OutputCoupler
LaserModule CoolantTurbopump	CoolantTurbopump
LaserModule CoolantInletTemperature_K	CoolantInletTemperature_K
LaserModule FrequencyDoubler	FrequencyDoubler
LaserModule SecondFrequencyDoubler	SecondFrequencyDoubler
LaserModule ApertureRadius_m	ApertureRadius_m
LaserModule FocusingMirror	FocusingMirror
LaserModule Turret	Turret
LaserModule Unmounted	Unmounted
LaserModule FixedMount	FixedMount
LaserModule EngagementRange_km	EngagementRange_km
LaserModule TargetsShips	TargetsShips
LaserModule TargetsShots	TargetsShots
StandaloneLaserMountModule LaserFeed	LaserFeed
StandaloneLaserMountModule Turret	Turret
StandaloneLaserMountModule FixedMount	FixedMount
StandaloneLaserMountModule TargetsShips	TargetsShips
StandaloneLaserMountModule TargetsShots	TargetsShots
CarrierModule Payload	Payload
CarrierModule Launcher	Launcher
CarrierModule CoolantTurbopump	CoolantTurbopump
CarrierModule CoolantInletTemperature_K	CoolantInletTemperature_K
CarrierModule ArmorMaterial	ArmorMaterial
CarrierModule ArmorThickness_m	ArmorThickness_m
CarrierModule EngagementRange_km	EngagementRange_km
CarrierModule TargetsShips	TargetsShips
CarrierModule TargetsShots	TargetsShots
CarrierModule LaunchCountCap	LaunchCountCap
BlastLauncherModule Payload	Payload
BlastLauncherModule PayloadRows	PayloadRows
BlastLauncherModule PayloadColumns	PayloadColumns
BlastLauncherModule ExplosiveMaterial	ExplosiveMaterial
BlastLauncherModule ExplosiveMass_kg	ExplosiveMass_kg
BlastLauncherModule ArmorMaterial	ArmorMaterial
BlastLauncherModule ArmorThickness_m	ArmorThickness_m
BlastLauncherModule EngagementRange_km	EngagementRange_km
BlastLauncherModule TargetsShips	TargetsShips
BlastLauncherModule TargetsShots	TargetsShots
BlastLauncherModule LaunchCountCap	LaunchCountCap
CombustionMixtureSubModule CombustionReaction	CombustionReaction
CombustionMixtureSubModule DelayComposition	DelayComposition
CombustionMixtureSubModule DelayCompositionMassFraction	DelayCompositionMassFraction
ProximityDetonator HardRange_km	HardRange_km
ProximityDetonator ActivationRange_km	ActivationRange_km
ProximityDetonator MinimumRange_km	MinimumRange_km
ProximityDetonator OverrideTimer_s	OverrideTimer_s
ExplosiveModule Length_m	Length_m
ExplosiveModule ExplosiveMass_kg	ExplosiveMass_kg
ExplosiveModule ExplosiveComposition	ExplosiveComposition
ExplosiveModule ShrapnelMass_kg	ShrapnelMass_kg
ExplosiveModule ShrapnelComposition	ShrapnelComposition
ExplosiveModule Detonator	Detonator
ExplosiveModule TargetsShips	TargetsShips
ExplosiveModule TargetsShots	TargetsShots
FlareModule ArmorComposition	ArmorComposition
FlareModule ArmorThickness_m	ArmorThickness_m
FlareModule Cylinder_m	Cylinder_m
FlareModule Radius_m	Radius_m
FlareModule Height_m	Height_m
FlareModule Pyrotechnic	Pyrotechnic
NuclearPayloadModule CoreComposition	CoreComposition
NuclearPayloadModule ReflectorComposition	ReflectorComposition
NuclearPayloadModule SlowExplosive	SlowExplosive
NuclearPayloadModule FastExplosive	FastExplosive
NuclearPayloadModule CoreMass_kg	CoreMass_kg
NuclearPayloadModule Enrichment_Percent	Enrichment_Percent
NuclearPayloadModule HollowCoreRadius_m	HollowCoreRadius_m
NuclearPayloadModule InnerExplosiveWidth_m	InnerExplosiveWidth_m
NuclearPayloadModule FusionBoost	FusionBoost
NuclearPayloadModule FusionFuelDensity_kg__m3	FusionFuelDensity_kg__m3
NuclearPayloadModule Detonator	Detonator
NuclearPayloadModule DelayedTrigger	DelayedTrigger
NuclearPayloadModule TargetsShips	TargetsShips
NuclearPayloadModule TargetsShots	TargetsShots
ThermocoupleSubModule PTypeComposition	PTypeComposition
ThermocoupleSubModule NTypeComposition	NTypeComposition
ThermocoupleSubModule Length_m	Length_m
RadioisotopePelletSubModule Fuel	Fuel
RadioisotopePelletSubModule Mass_kg	Mass_kg
RadioisotopePelletSubModule Height_m	Height_m
RadioisotopeThermoelectricGeneratorModule FuelPellet	FuelPellet
RadioisotopeThermoelectricGeneratorModule Thermocouple	Thermocouple
RadioisotopeThermoelectricGeneratorModule ExitTemperature_K	ExitTemperature_K
RadioisotopeThermoelectricGeneratorModule CoolantInletTemperature_K	CoolantInletTemperature_K
RadioisotopeThermoelectricGeneratorModule Cooler	Cooler
RadioisotopeThermoelectricGeneratorModule Coolant	Coolant
RadioisotopeThermoelectricGeneratorModule Turbopump	Turbopump
ThermoelectricFissionReactorModule ReactorCoreDimensions_m	ReactorCoreDimensions_m
ThermoelectricFissionReactorModule Radius_m	Radius_m
ThermoelectricFissionReactorModule Height_m	Height_m
ThermoelectricFissionReactorModule NuclearReactor	NuclearReactor
ThermoelectricFissionReactorModule InnerTurbopump	InnerTurbopump
ThermoelectricFissionReactorModule ThermocoupleInnerDimensions_m	ThermocoupleInnerDimensions_m
ThermoelectricFissionReactorModule Thermocouple	Thermocouple
ThermoelectricFissionReactorModule ThermocoupleExitTemperature_K	ThermocoupleExitTemperature_K
ThermoelectricFissionReactorModule InnerCooler	InnerCooler
ThermoelectricFissionReactorModule OuterCooler	OuterCooler
ThermoelectricFissionReactorModule OuterCoolantInletTemperature_K	OuterCoolantInletTemperature_K
ThermoelectricFissionReactorModule OuterCoolant	OuterCoolant
ThermoelectricFissionReactorModule OuterTurbopump	OuterTurbopump
TurboelectricFissionReactorModule ReactorCoreDimensions_m	ReactorCoreDimensions_m
TurboelectricFissionReactorModule Radius_m	Radius_m
TurboelectricFissionReactorModule Height_m	Height_m
TurboelectricFissionReactorModule NuclearReactor	NuclearReactor
TurboelectricFissionReactorModule Turbopump	Turbopump
TurboelectricFissionReactorModule Turbine	Turbine
TurboelectricFissionReactorModule CoolantInletPressure_Pa	CoolantInletPressure_Pa
TurboelectricFissionReactorModule CoolantInletTemperature_K	CoolantInletTemperature_K
CrewModule StructureMaterial	StructureMaterial
CrewModule CrewCapacity	CrewCapacity
CrewModule Decks	Decks
CrewModule ShellThickness_m	ShellThickness_m
CrewModule Turbopump	Turbopump
CrewModule Coolant	Coolant
HomingPhase GuidanceLaw	GuidanceLaw
HomingPhase Accelerate	Accelerate
HomingPhase DampingEngineMultiplier	DampingEngineMultiplier
HomingProperties PropellantForBoostPhase_Percent	PropellantForBoostPhase_Percent
HomingProperties BoostPhase	BoostPhase
HomingProperties MidcoursePhase	MidcoursePhase
HomingProperties TerminalPhase	TerminalPhase
HomingProperties IrradianceCutoff_Percent	IrradianceCutoff_Percent
RemoteControlModule AspectRatio	AspectRatio
RemoteControlModule HomingBehavior	HomingBehavior
FuseModule AspectRatio	AspectRatio
FuseModule TriggerEngines	TriggerEngines
FuseModule EngineDelay_s	EngineDelay_s
FuseModule TriggerPayloads	TriggerOrdnances
FuseModule PayloadDelay_s	OrdnanceDelay_s
ReactionWheelSubModule Composition	Composition
ReactionWheelSubModule RotationalSpeed_RPM	RotationalSpeed_RPM
TurretMotorSubModule PermanentMagnet	PermanentMagnet
TurretMotorSubModule PowerConsumption_W	PowerConsumption_W
LinearInductionMotorSubModule Stator	Stator
LinearInductionMotorSubModule TrackLength_m	TrackLength_m
LinearInductionMotorSubModule StatorDepth_m	StatorDepth_m
LinearInductionMotorSubModule Forcer	Forcer
LinearInductionMotorSubModule ForcerRadius_m	ForcerRadius_m
LinearInductionMotorSubModule Coolant	Coolant
LinearInductionMotorSubModule PowerConsumption_W	PowerConsumption_W
LinearInductionMotorSubModule Cooler	Cooler
CapacitorSubModule DielectricComposition	DielectricComposition
CapacitorSubModule Dimensions_m	Dimensions_m
CapacitorSubModule Radius_m	Radius_m
CapacitorSubModule Height_m	Height_m
CapacitorSubModule Separation_m	Separation_m
CapacitorBankSubModule Count	Count
CapacitorBankSubModule DielectricComposition	DielectricComposition
CapacitorBankSubModule Dimensions_m	Dimensions_m
CapacitorBankSubModule Radius_m	Radius_m
CapacitorBankSubModule Height_m	Height_m
CapacitorBankSubModule Separation_m	Separation_m
LinearMotorSubModule PowerConsumption_W	PowerConsumption_W
TurretSubModule InnerRadius_m	InnerRadius_m
TurretSubModule ArmorComposition	ArmorComposition
TurretSubModule ArmorThickness_m	ArmorThickness_m
TurretSubModule ElectricActuators	ElectricActuators
TurretSubModule MomentumWheels	MomentumWheels
ExtrudableTurretSubModule InnerRadius_m	InnerRadius_m
ExtrudableTurretSubModule Extruded	Extruded
ExtrudableTurretSubModule ArmorComposition	ArmorComposition
ExtrudableTurretSubModule ArmorThickness_m	ArmorThickness_m
ExtrudableTurretSubModule ElectricActuators	ElectricActuators
ExtrudableTurretSubModule MomentumWheels	MomentumWheels
RefuelerModule Pump	Pump
RefuelerModule HoseComposition	HoseComposition
RefuelerModule FluidToPump	FluidToPump
RefuelerModule HoseRadius_m	HoseRadius_m
RefuelerModule HoseThickness_m	HoseThickness_m
RefuelerModule HoseLength_m	HoseLength_m
RadiationShieldModule Composition	Composition
RadiationShieldModule Dimensions_m	Dimensions_m
RadiationShieldModule Radius_m	Radius_m
RadiationShieldModule Height_m	Height_m
SpacerModule Dimensions_m	Dimensions_m
SpacerModule Radius_m	Radius_m
SpacerModule Height_m	Height_m
NuclearReactorSubModule Coolant	Coolant
NuclearReactorSubModule Moderator	Moderator
NuclearReactorSubModule ModeratorMass_kg	ModeratorMass_kg
NuclearReactorSubModule Fuel	Fuel
NuclearReactorSubModule FuelMass_kg	FuelMass_kg
NuclearReactorSubModule FuelEnrichment_Percent	FuelEnrichment_Percent
NuclearReactorSubModule ControlRodComposition	ControlRodComposition
NuclearReactorSubModule ControlRodMass_kg	ControlRodMass_kg
NuclearReactorSubModule NeutronReflector	NeutronReflector
NuclearReactorSubModule ReflectorThickness_m	ReflectorThickness_m
NuclearReactorSubModule AverageNeutronFlux__m2_s	AverageNeutronFlux__m2_s
RadiatorModule Composition	Composition
RadiatorModule PanelWidth_m	PanelWidth_m
RadiatorModule Height_m	Height_m
RadiatorModule Thickness_m	Thickness_m
RadiatorModule ArmorThickness_m	ArmorThickness_m
RadiatorModule Panels	Panels
RadiatorModule SurfaceFinish	SurfaceFinish
RadiatorModule FrontTaper_radians	FrontTaper_radians
RadiatorModule BackTaper_radians	BackTaper_radians
TurbopumpSubModule Motor	Motor
TurbopumpSubModule Composition	Composition
TurbopumpSubModule PumpRadius_m	PumpRadius_m
TurbopumpSubModule RotationalSpeed_RPM	RotationalSpeed_RPM
TurbineSubModule Composition	Composition
TurbineSubModule TurbineRadius_m	TurbineRadius_m
TurbineSubModule HubRadius_m	HubRadius_m
TurbineSubModule AbsoluteInletAngle_degrees	AbsoluteInletAngle_degrees
TurbineSubModule StageCount	StageCount
PropellantTankModule Propellant	Propellant
PropellantTankModule StructureComposition	StructureComposition
PropellantTankModule ReactionMass_kg	ReactionMass_kg
PropellantTankModule HeightToRadiusRatio	HeightToRadiusRatio
PropellantTankModule AdditionalArmorThickness_m	AdditionalArmorThickness_m
PropellantTankModule External	External
TankEjectorSubModule ExplosiveBoltMass_kg	ExplosiveBoltMass_kg
TankEjectorSubModule ExplosiveBoltComposition	ExplosiveBoltComposition
ThermalRocketSubModule ChamberComposition	ChamberComposition
ThermalRocketSubModule ThroatRadius_m	ThroatRadius_m
ThermalRocketSubModule ChamberWallThickness_m	ChamberWallThickness_m
ThermalRocketSubModule ChamberContractionRatio	ChamberContractionRatio
ThermalRocketSubModule NozzleExpansionRatio	NozzleExpansionRatio
ThermalRocketSubModule NozzleExpansionAngle_degrees	NozzleExpansionAngle_degrees
ThermalRocketSubModule RegenerativeCooling_Percent	RegenerativeCooling_Percent
ThermalRocketSubModule Injector	Injector
NuclearThermalRocketModule ReactorCoreHeight_m	ReactorCoreHeight_m
NuclearThermalRocketModule NuclearReactor	NuclearReactor
NuclearThermalRocketModule ThermalRocket	ThermalRocket
NuclearThermalRocketModule Gimbal	Gimbal
NuclearThermalRocketModule GimbalAngle_degrees	GimbalAngle_degrees
CombustionRocketModule Reaction	Reaction
CombustionRocketModule StoichiometricMixtureRatio	StoichiometricMixtureRatio
CombustionRocketModule ThermalRocket	ThermalRocket
CombustionRocketModule Gimbal	Gimbal
CombustionRocketModule GimbalAngle_degrees	GimbalAngle_degrees
ResistojetModule PowerSupplied_W	PowerSupplied_W
ResistojetModule Propellant	Propellant
ResistojetModule CoilComposition	CoilComposition
ResistojetModule ChamberLength_m	ChamberLength_m
ResistojetModule CoilRadius_m	CoilRadius_m
ResistojetModule ThermalRocket	ThermalRocket
ResistojetModule Gimbal	Gimbal
ResistojetModule GimbalAngle_degrees	GimbalAngle_degrees
MagnetoplasmadynamicThrusterModule CathodeRadius_m	CathodeRadius_m
MagnetoplasmadynamicThrusterModule ChamberThickness_m	ChamberThickness_m
MagnetoplasmadynamicThrusterModule AnodeThickness_m	AnodeThickness_m
MagnetoplasmadynamicThrusterModule ThrusterLength_m	ThrusterLength_m
MagnetoplasmadynamicThrusterModule CathodeComposition	CathodeComposition
MagnetoplasmadynamicThrusterModule AnodeComposition	AnodeComposition
MagnetoplasmadynamicThrusterModule InsulatorComposition	InsulatorComposition
MagnetoplasmadynamicThrusterModule Propellant	Propellant
MagnetoplasmadynamicThrusterModule Current_A	Current_A
MagnetoplasmadynamicThrusterModule Injector	Injector
MagnetoplasmadynamicThrusterModule Gimbal	Gimbal
MagnetoplasmadynamicThrusterModule GimbalAngle_degrees	GimbalAngle_degrees
BlackBoxEngineModule EngineName	EngineName
BlackBoxEngineModule ModelFileName	ModelFileName
BlackBoxEngineModule Dimensions	Dimensions
BlackBoxEngineModule Radius_m	Radius_m
BlackBoxEngineModule Height_m	Height_m
BlackBoxEngineModule Mass_kg	Mass_kg
BlackBoxEngineModule PrimaryComposition	PrimaryComposition
BlackBoxEngineModule PowerConsumption_W	PowerConsumption_W
BlackBoxEngineModule Propellant	Propellant
BlackBoxEngineModule ExhaustVelocity_km__s	ExhaustVelocity_km__s
BlackBoxEngineModule Thrust_N	Thrust_N
BlackBoxEngineModule HeatSignature_W	HeatSignature_W
BlackBoxEngineModule GimbalAngle_degrees	GimbalAngle_degrees
BlackBoxWeaponModule WeaponName	WeaponName
BlackBoxWeaponModule ModelFileName	ModelFileName
BlackBoxWeaponModule Dimensions	Dimensions
BlackBoxWeaponModule Radius_m	Radius_m
BlackBoxWeaponModule Height_m	Height_m
BlackBoxWeaponModule Mass_kg	Mass_kg
BlackBoxWeaponModule PrimaryComposition	PrimaryComposition
BlackBoxWeaponModule PowerConsumption_W	PowerConsumption_W
BlackBoxWeaponModule MuzzleVelocity_km__s	MuzzleVelocity_km__s
BlackBoxWeaponModule Accuracy_radians	Accuracy_radians
BlackBoxWeaponModule Projectile	Projectile
BlackBoxWeaponModule LaserBeam	LaserBeam
BlackBoxWeaponModule ReloadTime_s	ReloadTime_s
BlackBoxWeaponModule Turret	Turret
BlackBoxWeaponModule AttachedAmmoBay	AttachedAmmoBay
BlackBoxWeaponModule TargetsShips	TargetsShips
BlackBoxWeaponModule TargetsShots	TargetsShots
BlackBoxLaserInfoSubModule Wavelength_nm	Wavelength_nm
BlackBoxLaserInfoSubModule Efficiency_Percent	Efficiency_Percent
BlackBoxLaserInfoSubModule ApertureRadius_m	ApertureRadius_m
BlackBoxLaserInfoSubModule BeamQualityFactor	BeamQualityFactor
BlackBoxLaserInfoSubModule Coolant	Coolant
BlackBoxLaserInfoSubModule CoolantMassFlowRate_kg__s	CoolantMassFlowRate_kg__s
BlackBoxLaserInfoSubModule RadiatorTemperature_K	RadiatorTemperature_K
BlackBoxLaserInfoSubModule EngagementRange_km	EngagementRange_km
BlackBoxRadiationSubModule GammaRadiation_W	GammaRadiation_W
BlackBoxRadiationSubModule ThermalNeutronRadiation_W	ThermalNeutronRadiation_W
BlackBoxRadiationSubModule FastNeutronRadiation_W	FastNeutronRadiation_W
BlackBoxPowerModule PowerplantName	PowerplantName
BlackBoxPowerModule ModelFileName	ModelFileName
BlackBoxPowerModule Dimensions	Dimensions
BlackBoxPowerModule Radius_m	Radius_m
BlackBoxPowerModule Height_m	Height_m
BlackBoxPowerModule Mass_kg	Mass_kg
BlackBoxPowerModule PrimaryComposition	PrimaryComposition
BlackBoxPowerModule PowerProduction_W	PowerProduction_W
BlackBoxPowerModule Efficiency_Percent	Efficiency_Percent
BlackBoxPowerModule Coolant	Coolant
BlackBoxPowerModule OutletMassFlow_kg__s	OutletMassFlow_kg__s
BlackBoxPowerModule OutletTemperature_K	OutletTemperature_K
BlackBoxPowerModule RadiationHazard	RadiationHazard
CargoModule Mass_kg	Mass_kg
CargoModule AspectRatio	AspectRatio
CargoModule Shell	Shell
LevelRecord TimeElapsed_s	Time Elapsed
LevelRecord DeltaVSpent_km__s	Delta V Spent
LevelRecord CapitalShipsAlive_Percent	Capital Ships Alive
LevelRecord CapitalShipsUnscathed_Percent	Capital Ships Unscathed
LevelRecord EnemyModulesLeft_Percent	Enemy Modules Left

FusionReaction Fusor1	Fusor 1
FusionReaction Fusor2	Fusor 2
FusionReaction AverageNeutronEnergy_MeV	Average Neutron Energy
FusionReaction AstrophysicalFactor_keV_b	Astrophysical Factor
FusionReaction AverageChargedEnergy_MeV	Average Charged Energy
Element Symbol	Symbol
Element AtomicNumber	Atomic Number
Element AtomicMass	Atomic Mass
Element Emission	Emission
Element HalfLife_s	Half Life
Element MolarMass_g__mol	Molar Mass
Element FirstIonizationEnergy_kJ__mol	First Ionization Energy
Element BetaDecay_keV	Beta Decay
Element MicroscopicThermalNeutronCaptureCrossSection_b	Microscopic Thermal Neutron Capture Cross Section
Element MicroscopicThermalNeutronScatteringCrossSection_b	Microscopic Thermal Neutron Scattering Cross Section
Element MicroscopicThermalNeutronFissionCrossSection_b	Microscopic Thermal Neutron Fission Cross Section
Element MicroscopicFastNeutronCaptureCrossSection_b	Microscopic Fast Neutron Capture Cross Section
Element MicroscopicFastNeutronScatteringCrossSection_b	Microscopic Fast Neutron Scattering Cross Section
Element MicroscopicFastNeutronFissionCrossSection_b	Microscopic Fast Neutron Fission Cross Section
Element MicroscopicResonanceIntegralCaptureCrossSection_b	Microscopic Resonance Integral Capture Cross Section
Element MicroscopicResonanceIntegralScatteringCrossSection_b	Microscopic Resonance Integral Scattering Cross Section
Element MicroscopicResonanceIntegralFissionCrossSection_b	Microscopic Resonance Integral Fission Cross Section
Element AverageNeutronsProducedPerThermalFission	Average Neutrons Produced Per Thermal Fission
Element AverageNeutronsProducedPerFastFission	Average Neutrons Produced Per Fast Fission
Element FissionEnergy_MeV	Fission Energy
Element UnenrichedElement	Unenriched Element
Element MeanGammaRayMassAbsorptionCoefficient_cm2__g	Mean Gamma Ray Mass Absorption Coefficient
Element TransmutationParents	Transmutation Parents
Element SolarAbundance	Solar Abundance
Element IsANonmetal	Is A Nonmetal
Element AlphaDecay_keV	Alpha Decay
Element GammaDecay_keV	Gamma Decay
ChemicalReaction Reactants	Reactants
ChemicalReaction ReactantCounts	ReactantCounts
ChemicalReaction Products	Products
ChemicalReaction ProductCounts	ProductCounts
ChemicalReaction ActivationEnergy_kJ__mol	ActivationEnergy_kJ__mol
ChemicalReaction AutoignitionTemperature	Autoignition Temperature
ChemicalReaction CharacteristicLength	Characteristic Length
ChemicalReaction LaminarFlameSpeed	Laminar Flame Speed
ChemicalReaction LaminarFlameWidth	Laminar Flame Width
ChemicalReaction DetonationVelocity	Detonation Velocity
ChemicalReaction AdiabaticFlameTemperature	Adiabatic Flame Temperature
CelestialBody Population	Population
CelestialBody OrbitalPopulation	OrbitalPopulation
CelestialBody Diameter	Diameter
CelestialBody Mass_kg	Mass_kg
CelestialBody Radius_km	Radius_km
CelestialBody Radii_km	Radii_km
CelestialBody SurfaceTemperature_K	SurfaceTemperature_K
CelestialBody Albedo	Albedo
CelestialBody SpectralType	SpectralType
CelestialBody IsGasComposition	IsGasComposition
CelestialBody Orbit	Orbit
CelestialBody Rotation	Rotation
CelestialBody RingSystem	RingSystem
CelestialBody Atmosphere	Atmosphere
CelestialRotation AxialTilt_degrees	AxialTilt_degrees
CelestialRotation SiderealRotationPeriod_s	SiderealRotationPeriod_s
CelestialOrbit ParentBody	ParentBody
CelestialOrbit Elements	Elements
OrbitalElements Epoch_JulianYears	Epoch_JulianYears
OrbitalElements SemiMajorAxis_km	SemiMajorAxis_km
OrbitalElements Eccentricity	Eccentricity
OrbitalElements ArgumentOfPeriapsis_degrees	ArgumentOfPeriapsis_degrees
OrbitalElements LongitudeOfAscendingNode_degrees	LongitudeOfAscendingNode_degrees
OrbitalElements MeanAnomaly_degrees	MeanAnomaly_degrees
OrbitalElements InclinationToRelativePlane_degrees	InclinationToRelativePlane_degrees
CelestialAtmosphere SurfacePressure_Pa	SurfacePressure_Pa
CelestialAtmosphere Composition	Composition
Material Elements	Elements
Material ElementCount	ElementCount
Material Density_kg__m3	Density_kg__m3
Material IsPorous	IsPorous
Material IsFibrous	IsFibrous
Material IsNanostructured	IsNanostructured
Material IsABiomaterial	IsABiomaterial
Material YieldStrength_MPa	YieldStrength_MPa
Material UltimateTensileStrength_MPa	UltimateTensileStrength_MPa
Material YoungsModulus_GPa	Young's Modulus
Material ShearModulus_GPa	ShearModulus_GPa
Material BulkModulus_GPa	BulkModulus_GPa
Material PoissonsRatio	Poisson's Ratio
Material EnthalpyOfFormation_kJ__mol	EnthalpyOfFormation_kJ__mol
Material BondDissociationEnergy_kJ__mol	BondDissociationEnergy_kJ__mol
Material GibbsFreeEnergyOfFormation_kJ__mol	GibbsFreeEnergyOfFormation_kJ__mol
Material SpecificHeat_J__kg_K	SpecificHeat_J__kg_K
Material MeltingPoint_K	MeltingPoint_K
Material BoilingPoint_K	BoilingPoint_K
Material ThermalConductivity_W__m_K	ThermalConductivity_W__m_K
Material ThermalExpansion__K	ThermalExpansion__K
Material Resistivity_Ohm_m	Resistivity_Ohm_m
Material DielectricStrength_MV__m	DielectricStrength_MV__m
Material RelativePermittivity	RelativePermittivity
Material RelativePermeability	RelativePermeability
Material TotalMagneticMoment	TotalMagneticMoment
Material Remanence_T	Remanence_T
Material ThermoelectricSensitivity_V__K	ThermoelectricSensitivity_V__K
Material BandGap_eV	BandGap_eV
Material Viscosity_Pa_s	Viscosity_Pa_s
Material Dissociation	Dissociation
Material RefractiveIndex	RefractiveIndex
Material OpticalNonlinearityCoefficient_pm__V	OpticalNonlinearityCoefficient_pm__V
Material ExternalAngularSensitivity__m_radians	ExternalAngularSensitivity__m_radians
Material LasingDamageThreshold_TW__m2	LasingDamageThreshold_TW__m2
Material LasingMediumProperties	LasingMediumProperties
Material RoughnessCoefficient	RoughnessCoefficient
Material Cost_c__kg	Cost_c__kg
Material SafeUseTemperature	Safe Use Temperature
Material MolarMass	Molar Mass
Material HalfLife_s	Half Life
Material RadioactiveDecaySpecificPower	Radioactive Decay Specific Power
Material WorkFunction	Work Function
Material FirstIonizationEnergy_kJ__mol	First Ionization Energy
Material AdiabaticIndex	Adiabatic Index
Material Conductivity	Conductivity
Material FissionEnergy_MeV	Fission Energy
Material ThermalDiffusivity	Thermal Diffusivity
Material SpeedOfSound	Speed of Sound
Material DetonationVelocity	Detonation Velocity
Material EnergyDensity	Energy Density
Material AdiabaticFlameTemperature	Adiabatic Flame Temperature
Material MagneticSusceptibility	Magnetic Susceptibility
Material Coercivity	Coercivity
Material SaturationMagnetization	Saturation Magnetization
Material MagneticSaturationFluxDensity	Magnetic Saturation Flux Density
Material TransitionWavelength	Transition Wavelength
Material PumpingBands	Pumping Bands
Material PumpingBand	Band
Material TransitionCrossSection	Transition Cross Section
Material SpontaneousLifetime	Spontaneous Lifetime
Material AtomicLasingDensity	Atomic Lasing Density
LasingMedium PumpingBands_nm	PumpingBands_nm
LasingMedium IsThreeLevelPumpScheme	IsThreeLevelPumpScheme
LasingMedium TransitionWavelength_nm	TransitionWavelength_nm
LasingMedium TransitionCrossSection_m2	TransitionCrossSection_m2
LasingMedium SpontaneousLifetime_s	SpontaneousLifetime_s
LasingMedium AtomicLasingDensity__m3	AtomicLasingDensity__m3
LasingMedium ThermoopticCoefficient__K	ThermoopticCoefficient__K
DissociationReaction Products	Products
DissociationReaction ProductCounts	ProductCounts
MilitaryDoctrine DisableWeaponsOutsideOfCombat	DisableWeaponsOutsideOfCombat
MilitaryDoctrine DoNotTryToStayInHillSphere	DoNotTryToStayInHillSphere
MilitaryDoctrine MissileLaunchDoctrine	MissileLaunchDoctrine
MilitaryDoctrine DroneLaunchDoctrine	DroneLaunchDoctrine
MilitaryDoctrine CapitalShipInterceptDoctrine	CapitalShipInterceptDoctrine
MilitaryDoctrine MissileInterceptDoctrine	MissileInterceptDoctrine
MilitaryDoctrine DroneInterceptDoctrine	DroneInterceptDoctrine
MilitaryDoctrine CombatDoctrine	CombatDoctrine
MilitaryDoctrine AlwaysAvailableInSandbox	AlwaysAvailableInSandbox
InterceptionProtocol DeltaVBudget_Percent	DeltaVBudget_Percent
InterceptionProtocol InstantaneousDeltaVBudget_Percent	InstantaneousDeltaVBudget_Percent
InterceptionProtocol DistanceMaximum_km	DistanceMaximum_km
InterceptionProtocol OnlyEnsurePlanarity	OnlyEnsurePlanarity
InterceptionProtocol InterceptCapitalShips	InterceptCapitalShips
InterceptionProtocol InterceptDrones	InterceptDrones
InterceptionProtocol InterceptMissiles	InterceptMissiles
InterceptionProtocol TonnageWeightFactor	TonnageWeightFactor
InterceptionProtocol DistanceWeightFactor	DistanceWeightFactor
LaunchProtocol OnlyWhenNodal	OnlyWhenNodal
LaunchProtocol DistanceMaximum_km	DistanceMaximum_km
LaunchProtocol StaggerDistance_km	StaggerDistance_km
LaunchProtocol WingsInFlightNeeded	WingsInFlightNeeded
LaunchProtocol AttackWingSize	AttackWingSize
LaunchProtocol ReserveSize	ReserveSize
CombatProtocol CapitalShipDoctrine	CapitalShipDoctrine
CombatProtocol DroneDoctrine	DroneDoctrine
CombatProtocol MissileDoctrine	MissileDoctrine
CombatProtocol WeaponsDoctrine	WeaponsDoctrine
CombatProtocol FlareDoctrine	FlareDoctrine
WeaponsProtocol NeverIgnoreRange	NeverIgnoreRange
WeaponsProtocol IgnoreRangeIfOverAmmoThreshold_Percent	IgnoreRangeIfOverAmmoThreshold_Percent
WeaponsProtocol IgnoreRangeOnlyWhenThreatsAreFiring	IgnoreRangeOnlyWhenThreatsAreFiring
WeaponsProtocol TargetPriorities	TargetPriorities
CapitalShipProtocol EnterCombatOrder	EnterCombatOrder
CapitalShipProtocol TargetInRangeOrder	TargetInRangeOrder
CapitalShipProtocol TargetsOutOfRangeOrder	TargetsOutOfRangeOrder
CapitalShipProtocol CivilianShipCombatOrder	CivilianShipCombatOrder
MissileProtocol MinimumInterceptTime_s	MinimumInterceptTime_s
MissileProtocol SeekOrder	SeekOrder
MissileProtocol EnemyMissilesInboundOrder	EnemyMissilesInboundOrder
DroneProtocol MinimumInterceptTime_s	MinimumInterceptTime_s
DroneProtocol InterceptDeltaVLimit_Percent	InterceptDeltaVLimit_Percent
DroneProtocol LaunchDefensively	LaunchDefensively
DroneProtocol WeaponDestroyedOrder	WeaponDestroyedOrder
DroneProtocol TargetInRangeOrder	TargetInRangeOrder
DroneProtocol TargetOutOfRangeOrder	TargetOutOfRangeOrder
DroneProtocol EnemyMissilesInboundOrder	EnemyMissilesInboundOrder
FlareProtocol AntiFlareOrder	AntiFlareOrder
FlareProtocol FlaresNeededInFlight	FlaresNeededInFlight
FlareProtocol LaunchEvenIfHeatIsNotEnough	LaunchEvenIfHeatIsNotEnough
FlareProtocol OnlyAgainstUncrewedEnemies	OnlyAgainstUncrewedEnemies





UnlockAllContent Message
	Are you sure you wish to unlock all non-level content?
	This is not recommended for users inexperienced with the science underlying the game.
6HourTurn Tooltip	Make turns 6 hours long
1DayTurn Tooltip	Make turns 1 day long
6DayTurn Tooltip	Make turns 6 days long
10MinuteTurn Tooltip	Make turns 10 minutes long
1HourTurn Tooltip	Make turns 1 hour long
1MonthTurn Tooltip	Make turns 1 month long
1MinuteTurn Tooltip	Make turns 1 minutes long
Export Tooltip	Export
ExportDesign Tooltip	Exports this design and its dependencies to %s.
CantExportCore Tooltip	Can't export core designs.
NoDesignSelected Tooltip	No design selected.
UnableToExportDesign Message	Unable to export design.
ExportedDesignTo Message	Exported design to %s%s.
UploadDesignToSteam Tooltip	Uploads this design and its dependencies to Steam Workshop.
CantUploadCoreToSteam Tooltip	Can't upload core designs to Steam Workshop.
FeatureUnsupported Message	This feature is not supported.
SteamWorkshopUpload Tooltip	Upload to Steam Workshop
SteamUploadPreviewFailure Message	Unable to generate a preview.
SteamUploadSuccess Message	%s uploaded to Steam Workshop successfully.
SteamUploadFailure Message	Unable to upload %s to Steam Workshop.
GotGold Tooltip	You have equalled or exceeded all records for this level.
GotSilver Tooltip	You have equalled or exceeded at least one record for this level.
GotBronze Tooltip	You have beaten this level, but neither equalled nor exceeded any records.
NotBeatenLevel Tooltip	You have not beaten this level yet.
BeatLevelUnlockShipDesign Tooltip	Completion Unlocks Ship Design!
BeatLevelUnlockModuleDesign Tooltip	Completion Unlocks Module Design!
ErrorsMustBeResolved Tooltip	Errors must be resolved for this module to be usable.
WarningsDontNeedToBeResolved Tooltip	Warnings do not have to be resolved to use this module.
TightTimeLimitBadge Tooltip	Tight Time Limit
TightDeltaVBadge Tooltip	Tight Delta-v Budget
HighGravitationBadge Tooltip	High Gravitation
OutOfPlaneBadge Tooltip	Out of Plane Maneuvering
RetrogradeBadge Tooltip	Retrograde Maneuvering
OrbitalTransfersBadge Tooltip	Orbital Transfers
FleetCombatBadge Tooltip	Fleet Combat
AggressiveEnemiesBadge Tooltip	Aggressive Enemies
PrecisionCombatBadge Tooltip	Precision Combat
CustomFleetsBadge Tooltip	Custom Fleets
TightTimeLimitBadge VerboseTooltip	Mission may be difficult to complete within the allotted time.
TightDeltaVBadge VerboseTooltip	Mission may be difficult to complete with the allotted delta-v.
HighGravitationBadge VerboseTooltip	Your fleets will have low acceleration compared to local gravitation, meaning your burns will not be instantaneous.
OutOfPlaneBadge VerboseTooltip	Your fleets may end up in a different 3-dimensional plane as your targets.
RetrogradeBadge VerboseTooltip	Your fleets may end up moving in opposite orbits as your targets.
OrbitalTransfers VerboseTooltip	Transfers between at least two different celestial bodies, such as two moons orbiting a central planet.
FleetCombatBadge VerboseTooltip	Combat against enemy spacecrafts.
AggressiveEnemiesBadge VerboseTooltip	Enemy fleets are aggressive or greatly outnumber you.
PrecisionCombat VerboseTooltip	During combat, surgical precision with aiming is necessary to succeed.
CustomFleetsBadge VerboseTooltip	Your fleets can be customized during the briefing.
OpensUpShips Tooltip	Opens up all ships for modification and creation.
ResetCurrentFleet Tooltip	Resets the current fleet to the default.
FirstTimeSeeingArticle Tooltip	This is the first time seeing this article.
BeginMissionWithoutCustomizing Message	Are you sure you would like to begin mission without customizing your fleet?
MustBeatPriorLevels Tooltip	You need to beat the previous level in order to start this mission.
FleetExceedsMassAndCostLimits Tooltip	Customized fleet must have all operational ships and not exceed mass or cost limits!
MissionLockedUntilBeatPriorLevels Tooltip	This mission is locked until you beat the prior missions.
MustBeatMoreLevelsToUnlockFeature Tooltip	You need to beat more campaign levels to unlock this behavior.
MustBeatLevelToUnlockPreset Tooltip	You need to beat this level to unlock this preset.
CantRemoveShipFromFleet Tooltip	Can't remove. This ship is not part of customizable fleet.
AddToFleet Tooltip	Add to Fleet
RemoveFromFleet Tooltip	Remove from Fleet
EditInShipDesign Tooltip	Edit In Ship Design
ViewInShipDesign Tooltip	View In Ship Design
YouMayCustomizeMissionAspect Tooltip	You may customize this aspect of the mission.
ScreenshotMode Tooltip	Hides all of the user interface. Can be unhidden with [Escape].
CloseMessageLog Tooltip	Closes the message log
CantGoToNextMissionFromCombat Tooltip	Can't go on to the next mission until you exit from combat.
ClosesCurrentMessage Tooltip	Closes the current message
StopAllFutureTutorials Tooltip	Stops all future tutorial messages for this level playthrough.
MustUnlockModuleDesign Tooltip	You need to unlock module design before you can access this info.
MustUnlockShipDesign Tooltip	You need to unlock ship design before you can access this info.
NewContentUnlockedByLevel Tooltip	New %ss are unlocked per level as you progress through the game.
UploadToSteamSuccessful Message	Unable to upload item to Steam Workshop.
UploadToSteamFailed Message	Upload to Steam Workshop successful
CouldNotFindWorkshopItemID Message	Could not find Workshop Item ID, created a new item.
CantRunTurnInvalidTrajectory Tooltip	Can't run the turn as long as any trajectory is invalid.
CantRunTurnMissionOver Tooltip	Can't run the turn once the mission is over.
CancelTrajectory Tooltip	Returns this fleet to a fixed stationkept orbit.
BeginTrajectory Tooltip	Begins a trajectory which can have thruster burns applied.
CantBeginTrajectory Tooltip	Can't start a new trajectory. This fleet has no delta-v to begin a trajectory.
ExecutesTurn Tooltip	Executes a turn [Enter/Space]
SelectObject Tooltip	Gives a list of objects to select.
SetFrameOfReference Tooltip	Gives a list of objects to set as the frame of reference.
FocusCamera Tooltip	Gives a list of objects to recenter the camera on.
ToggleDetailShipList Tooltip	Toggle Detailed Ship List
ShowCenterOfMass Tooltip	Show Center of Mass
CompareChanges Tooltip	Compare Changes
OpenInfolinksShipDesign Tooltip	Opens up infolinks to look up concepts of spacecraft engineering.
EnableModuleAnimation Tooltip	Enables animation of this module.
ToggleDetailModuleList Tooltip	Toggle Detailed Module List
OpenInfolinksModuleDesign Tooltip	Opens up infolinks to look up concepts of engineering specific to the selected module.
ShipDesign ShowConsolidatedMass Tooltip	Show Consolidated Mass
ShipDesign ShowStackedPower Tooltip	Show Stacked Power
ShipDesign ShowStackedHeat Tooltip	Show Stacked Heat
ShipDesign ShowStackedPower VerboseTooltip	Shows how much power each module type uses summed across the total module count.
ShipDesign ShowStackedHeat VerboseTooltip	Shows total heat across all modules instead of per module type.
ShipDesign ShowConsolidatedMass VerboseTooltip	Shows mass by rough category rather than by module.
ShipDesign AddNewArmorLayer Tooltip	Add New Armor Layer
ShipDesign MoveArmorLayerDown Tooltip	Move this Armor Layer Down
ShipDesign MoveArmorLayerUp Tooltip	Move this Armor Layer Up
ShipDesign DeleteArmorLayer Tooltip	Delete This Armor Layer
ShipDesign ShipDesignLocked Tooltip	Creating and editing new ship designs, viewing the internals of pre-existing ship designs, is locked until you beat the mission '%s'.
ShipDesign MustSelectShipToEdit Tooltip	You need to select a ship design to edit it.
ShipDesign ModuleDesignLocked Tooltip	Accessing module design is locked until you unlock all aspects of ship design.
ShipDesign DeleteShip Tooltip	Deletes this spacecraft design.
ShipDesign CantDeleteCoreShip Tooltip	Can't delete a Core Game spacecraft design.
ShipDesign CantDeleteDependentShip Tooltip	Can't delete this spacecraft due to dependencies:
AreYouSureYouWishToDelete Message	Are you sure you wish to delete %s?
ShipDesign AddNewModule Tooltip	Add a new %s module.
ShipDesign ReplaceModule Tooltip	Replace this Module...
ShipDesign AddRefueler Tooltip	Add Refueler...
ShipDesign AddPropellant Tooltip	Add Propellant...
ShipDesign AddThruster Tooltip	Add Thruster...
ShipDesign AddAmmo Tooltip	Add Ammo...
ShipDesign AddRadiator Tooltip	Add Radiator...
ShipDesign AddLaser Tooltip	Add Laser Mount...
ShipDesign ViewModule Tooltip	View this Module
ShipDesign EditModule Tooltip	Edit this Module
ShipDesign CantEditModuleLocked Tooltip	Can't edit this module until Module Design is unlocked.
ShipDesign DeleteModule Tooltip	Delete this Module
ShipDesign NudgeModuleRear Tooltip	Nudge To Rear
ShipDesign NudgeModuleFront Tooltip	Nudge To Front
ShipDesign NudgeModuleOutwards Tooltip	Nudge Outwards
ShipDesign NudgeModuleInwards Tooltip	Nudge Inwards
ShipDesign DuplicateModule Tooltip	Duplicate this Module
ModuleError RadiatorNeedsModule	Radiator needs a module to cool!
ModuleError ModuleNotCooled	Module is not being effectively cooled!
ModuleError ModuleIntersection	Module is intersecting with other modules!
ModuleError ModuleSelfIntersection	Module is currently self intersecting!
ModuleError TankNeedsEngineOrRefueler	Propellant tank supplies reaction mass to no engine or refueler!
ModuleError RefuelerNeedsTank	Refueler has no reaction mass to pump!
ModuleError EngineNeedsTank	Engine has no reaction mass supplied to it!
ModuleError ModuleNeedsPower	Module can not draw enough power to function!
ModuleError WeaponNeedsAmmo	Weapon has no ammo supplied to it!
ModuleError AmmoNeedsWeapon	Ammo container has no weapon which uses it!
ShipDesign ModuleRadiation Tooltip	
	The total radiation emitted by this module.
	Keep it as far away from your crew compartments as possible, or put radiation shields between your crew modules and this module.
ShipDesign ModuleAmmo Tooltip	
	This module has built built-in ammo bays.
	You don't need to supply it with an external ammo module, but you may if one exists for it.
ModuleError NotOperational	Module design is not an operational module!
ModuleError NotRadiationSafe	Module is not radiation safe!
ModuleError RadiatorInterreflection	Radiator suffers interreflection with a different radiator type!
ShipDesign ModuleTooMuchRadiation Tooltip	This module experiences %s of radiation annually, above the annual limit of %s!
ShipDesign ModuleNotEnoughPower Tooltip	Only %s of power is supplied, but this module requires %s!
ShipDesign ModuleRadiatorEfficiency Tooltip	
	The radiator efficiency lost due to interreflection between the radiators.
	Reduce the number of radiators stacked together by spreading them out across the ship.
ShipDesign ModuleIsCooled Tooltip	Module is properly cooled.
ShipDesign ModuleExcessHeat Tooltip	%s of excess heat needs to be radiated away!
ShipDesign ModuleHeatEmitted Tooltip	
	%s of excess heat emitted from %s.
	This module will remove %s heat per radiator.
ModuleDesign MustSelectModuleToEdit Tooltip	You need to select a module design to make changes to it.
ModuleDesign ModuleDesignLocked Tooltip	Creating and editing new module designs, or viewing the internals of pre-existing module designs, is locked until you can play the mission '%s'.
ModuleDesign DeleteModule Tooltip	Deletes this module design.
ModuleDesign CantDeleteCoreModule Tooltip	Can't delete Core Game modules.
ModuleDesign CantDeleteDependentModule Tooltip	Can't delete this module due to dependencies:
ExplosiveUI Detonate Tooltip	Manually triggers the explosive.
LaserFluenceChart Tooltip	Intensity At Ranges
NuclearPayloadUI Detonate Tooltip	Manually triggers the nuclear device.
NuclearPayloadUI IgnoreMinimumRange Tooltip	If enabled, will ignore how close friendly capital ships are when detonating.
NuclearPayloadUI DelayedTrigger Tooltip	If enabled, once proximity trigger is hit, there will be a short delay before detonating.
PropellantTankUI EjectWhenEmpty Tooltip	Automatically discards the tank when empty.
PropellantTankUI Eject Tooltip	Detaches and discards the external tank.
RefuelerUI Extract Tooltip	If enabled, will take fuel from out other crafts rather than put fuel into them.
WeaponUI DodgePrediction Tooltip	If enabled, will attempt to estimate enemy's future dodges.
WeaponUI IgnoreRange Tooltip	If enabled, this weapon will always fire, even if all targets are out of range.
WeaponUI DistributedTargeting Tooltip	If enabled, targets will be distributed among other turrets and ships.
InfoBox ExplosionHazard Tooltip	Indicates that this module will detonate if punctured.
InfoBox BipropellantMassRatio Tooltip	Bipropellant mass ratio required to operate.
InfoBox CraftSize Tooltip	Size and Dimensions
InfoBox CraftMass Tooltip	Total Spacecraft Mass
InfoBox CraftCost Tooltip	Total Spacecraft Cost
InfoBox CraftHeatSignature Tooltip	Decoy Flares must exceed the heat signature to mask this craft. Peak heat is with all engines and weapons firing.
InfoBox CraftArmor Tooltip	Armor Layers
InfoBox CraftPayload Tooltip	Ordnance
InfoBox CraftWeapons Tooltip	Weapons Armament
InfoBox CraftMovement Tooltip	Movement Specifics
InfoBox CraftMassRatio Tooltip	Mass Ratio is the wet mass (total mass including propellant mass) divided by the dry mass (total mass except for propellant mass).
InfoBox CraftDeltaV Tooltip	The delta-v which this spacecraft will start out with, assuming full propellant tanks, as well as the propellant types used.
InfoBox CraftCrew Tooltip	Crew Required out of Crew Provided
InfoBox PowerUsageBreakdown Tooltip	Power Usage Breakdown
InfoBox CraftHeat Tooltip	Heat Signature Breakdown
InfoBox MassBreakdown Tooltip	Mass Breakdown
InfoBox CostBreakdown Tooltip	Cost Breakdown
InfoBox ModuleAdvancedInfo Tooltip	Advanced information specific to this module type.
InfoBox EnginePropulsionVitals Tooltip	Propulsion Vitals
InfoBox EngineGimbalInfo Tooltip	Gimbaling Information
InfoBox ExplosiveInfo Tooltip	Shrapnel yielded after detonation.
InfoBox FlareInfo Tooltip	Will mask any heat signatures less than this flare's power, assuming equivalent distances.
InfoBox FlareTime Tooltip	Total Time Flare will be usable for.
InfoBox RadiationShield Tooltip	Radiation Shielding
InfoBox LaserVitals Tooltip	Laser Vitals
InfoBox LaserIntensity Tooltip	Intensity at Selected Ranges
InfoBox ModuleHeatTransfer Tooltip	The total heat that needs to be dissipated through radiators to operate. The outlet temperature is the temperature at which the radiators will operate. Higher temperatures yield vastly more efficient radiators.
InfoBox ModuleCrew Tooltip	The total amount of crew needed to operate or maintain this system.
InfoBox ModuleRadiation Tooltip	The total radiation emitted that needs to be shielded against for crews.
InfoBox ModulePower Tooltip	Total Power Required to Operate
InfoBox ModuleMass Tooltip	Total System Mass
InfoBox ModuleCost Tooltip	Total System Cost
InfoBox NuclearPayload Tooltip	Detonation Information
InfoBox Powerplant Tooltip	Powerplant Vitals
InfoBox PropellantMassRatio Tooltip	The wet mass (mass including propellant) divided by the dry mass (mass without propellant). Your spacecraft's mass ratio can never exceed the best mass ratio of all propellant tanks. Higher density propellants have a better mass ratio.
InfoBox PropellantArmor Tooltip	Armor for this propellant tank beyond the structure needed to contain the fluid pressure.
InfoBox PropellantEjection Tooltip	The speed at which this module will be ejected if it is detached.
InfoBox PropellantDetonation Tooltip	Indicates that this module will detonate if punctured.
InfoBox Radiator Tooltip	Radiator Stats
InfoBox RadiatorHeat Tooltip	Sample Heat Dissipation At Select Temperatures
InfoBox Refueler Tooltip	Refueling Information
InfoBox WeaponShot Tooltip	Shot Vitals
InfoBox WeaponRange Tooltip	Range Estimates for Varying Sized Targets
InfoBox WeaponReload Tooltip	Reloading Information
InfoBox WeaponTurret Tooltip	Turret Information
ItineraryDragger Temporal Tooltip	Temporal
ItineraryDragger Tangential Tooltip	Tangential
ItineraryDragger OutOfPlane Tooltip	Out of Plane
ItineraryDragger Radial Tooltip	Radial
Itinerary OrbitalNode Tooltip	
	Orbital Node
	The point where this crosses the target orbital plane.
Itinerary Apoapsis Tooltip	
	Apoapsis
	The point furthest from the orbited body on a closed orbit.
Itinerary Periapsis Tooltip	
	Periapsis
	The point nearest to the orbited body on a closed orbit.
Itinerary CanMatchOrbit Tooltip	
	Can Match Orbit of %s Around %s
	Costs at least %s
Itinerary CanMatchFleet Tooltip	
	Can %s Fleet %s
	Costs at least %s
Itinerary Intercept Tooltip	Intercept
Itinerary Flyby Tooltip	Flyby
Itinerary Join Tooltip	Join
Itinerary Burn Tooltip	Burn
Itinerary Collision Tooltip	Collision!
Itinerary InterceptEnemy Tooltip	Intercept Enemy
Itinerary AlliedJoin Tooltip	Allied Join
Itinerary PastTimeLimit Tooltip	Past Time Limit!
Itinerary Collision Message	Trajectory ends in collision.
Itinerary EnemyIntercept Message	Enemy intercepts trajectory.
Itinerary DifferentEnemyIntercept Message	Different enemy intercepts trajectory.
Itinerary GravityOverwhelms Message	Gravity overwhelms acceleration.
Itinerary OverTimeLimit Message	Over the time limit.
Itinerary NotEnoughDeltaV Message	Not enough delta-v.
Itinerary CircularInjectSuccess Message	Orbit Injection Successful
Itinerary CircularInjectFailure Message	Injection Plot Failure
Itinerary MatchOrbitSuccess Message	Matched Orbit Successfully
Itinerary MatchOrbitFailure Message	Match Orbit failure
Itinerary InterceptSuccess Message	Intercept Plotted Successfully
Itinerary InterceptFailure Message	%s Failure
Itinerary EvadedIntercept Message	Evaded Intercept
Itinerary JoinLost Message	Join Lost
Itinerary InterceptLost Message	Intercept Lost
Itinerary ReinterceptFailed Message	Reintercept Failed
Itinerary RejoinLost Message	Rejoin Lost
Itinerary EvadedReintercept Message	Evaded Reintercept
Itinerary TrajectoryComplete Message	Trajectory Completed
Itinerary TrajectoryJoined Message	Joined Successfully
Itinerary CircularInjectCollision Tooltip	Will collide fatally before can circular inject successfully.
Itinerary CircularInjectEnemyIntercept Tooltip	Circular injection attempt is interrupted by enemy intercepting this trajectory.
Itinerary GravityOverwhelms Tooltip	Gravitational forces exceed acceleration. Enter at a more similar velocity to correct.
Itinerary CircularInjectOverTimeLimit Tooltip	Injected into circular orbit, but completion time was beyond the time limit!
Itinerary CircularInjectNotEnoughDeltaV Tooltip	Injected into circular orbit, but not enough delta-v to execute! %s needed total, only %s remaining.
Itinerary CircularInjectSuccess Tooltip	Injected into circular orbit around %s in %s
Itinerary MatchOrbitCollision Tooltip	Will collide fatally before can match orbit successfully.
Itinerary MatchOrbitEnemyIntercept Tooltip	Match orbit attempt is interrupted by enemy intercepting this trajectory.
Itinerary MatchOrbitOverTimeLimit Tooltip	Matched orbit successfully, but will complete after time is up.
Itinerary MatchOrbitNotEnoughDeltaV Tooltip	Matched orbit successfully, but not enough delta-v to execute! %s needed total, only %s remaining.
Itinerary MatchOrbitSuccess Tooltip	Matching orbit around %s in %s
Itinerary InterceptRendezvousWith Tooltip	Rendezousing with
Itinerary InterceptInterceptWith Tooltip	Intercepting
Itinerary InterceptFlybyWith Tooltip	Flying by
Itinerary InterceptSuccess Tooltip	%s %s in %s
Itinerary InterceptFailure Tooltip	Could not successfully %s %s.
Itinerary InterceptUseLessVelocity Tooltip	Attempt with less relative velocity or earlier on the trajectory.
Itinerary InterceptEnemyEngage Tooltip	An enemy will engage before intercept can complete.
Itinerary InterceptDifferentEnemy Tooltip	A different enemy will engage before intercept can complete.
Itinerary InterceptCollision Tooltip	Collides fatally before intercept can complete.
Itinerary InterceptOverTimeLimit Tooltip	Plotted intercept successfully, but will complete after time is up.
Itinerary InterceptNotEnoughDeltaV Tooltip	Plotted intercept, but not enough delta-v to execute! %s needed total, only %s remaining.
Itinerary InterceptRendezvous Tooltip	rendezvous with
Itinerary InterceptIntercept Tooltip	intercept
Itinerary InterceptFlyby Tooltip	flyby
Itinerary TrajectoryPlannedLost Tooltip	Trajectory planned by %s to %s %s was lost.
Itinerary ReinterceptLost Tooltip	Reintercept by %s to %s %s was lost.
Itinerary EnterStationkeeping Tooltip	Entered Stationkept Orbit Around %s
Itinerary TrajectoryJoined Tooltip	%s Joined with %s
FocusCameraOnThis Tooltip	Focus Camera
FocusCameraOnThis VerboseTooltip	Centers the camera on this object or on to the selected point on trajectory.
InspectFleet Tooltip	Inspect Fleet
InspectFleet VerboseTooltip	Zooms into this fleet and allows you to inspect or manipulate the ships directly.
Hotkey Tooltip	The current hotkey [Shift+#] (0-9) that this fleet is keyed to. Set with [Ctrl+#].
TrajectoryDeltaVSpending Tooltip	Indicates the delta-v currently spent out of how much total can be spent for this trajectory
DeltaVSpentOutOfTotal Tooltip	How much delta-v out of the fleet total is spent on these burns
ClearAllBurns Tooltip	Clears these burns and all burns after it
Itinerary TrajectoryAchievesSolarEscape Tooltip	Trajectory is too fast, and has achieved solar escape velocity. Reverting to freefall trajectory.
Itinerary NoOrbitPossible Message	No Orbit Possible
FleetHasCrashed Message	%s has crashed
FleetHasCrashedInto Message	%s has crashed into %s
FleetSplit Message	Fleet Split
FleetHasExitedSystem Tooltip	Fleet has exited the system and is no longer tactically relevant.
FleetHasExitedSystem Message	%s has exited the system and was destroyed
FleetRanOutOfDeltaV Message	%s has run out of delta-v and was destroyed
FleetRanOutOfDeltaV Tooltip	Fleet was remotely disarmed and is no longer tactically relevant.
FleetLaunched Message	%i %s(s) Launched
FleetLaunched Tooltip	Fleet Launched from %s
FleetSplit Tooltip	Fleet %s Split
BurnsHaveBeenCleared Message	Trajectory Burns Have Been Cleared
BurnsHaveBeenCleared Tooltip	Time passing in tactical view corresponded to time when a burn was plotted, so the trajectory burn was cleared. To avoid this issue, don't put burns at time = 0 and then inspect any fleet
ArmorVisualizer Tooltip	Displays armor damage for the innermost armor layer.
AdvancedOptions Tooltip	Advanced
AdvancedOptions VerboseTooltip	Opens up advanced info and options for this craft.
NoCrewControl Tooltip	No Crew Control
OutOfPower Tooltip	Out of Power
Overheated Tooltip	Overheated
NoTargetInRange Tooltip	No Target in Range
NoTargetInFiringArc Tooltip	No Target in Firing Arc
OutOfAmmo Tooltip	Out of Ammo
NoCrewControl VerboseTooltip	Crew module is either overheated or unpowered.
OutOfPower VerboseTooltip	Turrets, reloaders, or capacitors may be drawing power.
Overheated VerboseTooltip	Ensure radiators are extended and undamaged.
NoTargetInRange VerboseTooltip	To get into range, burn into range with either a Move or one of the Homing orders.
NoTargetInFiringArc VerboseTooltip	Rotate your ship until these weapons are in arc, with a Broadside or Reorient order.
ActivateModules Tooltip	Toggles activating or deactivating of these modules.
TargetModules Tooltip	Toggles target prioritizing of these modules.
RemoveTargetPriority Tooltip	Deprioritize as Target (Currently all are prioritized)
RemovePartialTargetPriority Tooltip	Deprioritize as Target (Currently some are prioritized)
AddTargetPriority Tooltip	Prioritize As Target (Currently none are prioritized)
SelectAffectedShipModule Tooltip	Selects Affected Ship/Module
Orders Cancel Tooltip	Cancels any current order.
Orders Move Tooltip	Makes your ships go in a single direction (until given new orders).
Orders Orient Tooltip	Changes your ships' direction.
Orders Roll Tooltip	Continuously spins your ship along the main rotational axis.
Orders Regroup Tooltip	Sends units together.
Orders Broadside Tooltip	Rotates the ship until the longest range weapon has a clear shot at the nearest target.
Orders Homing Tooltip	Chases after the greatest heat source and tries for a collision.
Orders Scatter Tooltip	Sends units in opposite directions.
Orders NoseForward Tooltip	Rotates the ship until the nose is roughly aimed at the enemy fleet.
HighPriorityTarget Tooltip	High Priority Target
DefaultPriorityTarget Tooltip	Default Priority Target
SomeHighPriorityTarget Tooltip	Some are High Priority Targets
DodgingIsDisabledForSome Tooltip	Dodging Disabled for Some
DodgingIsOn Tooltip	Dodging is On
DodgingIsDisabled Tooltip	Dodging is Disabled
TargetShip Tooltip	Sets or unsets these spacecraft(s) as high priority targets, which makes your own ships target them first if possible (within range and firing arc).
EnableDodging Tooltip	Disables or enables dodging for these spacecraft(s).
CantGiveOrders Tooltip	Can't give orders. Ship(s) are out of delta-v.
OrderInUse Tooltip	Currently %s
HasMultipleOrders Tooltip	Currently has Multiple Orders
HasNoOrders Tooltip	Without Orders
ChangeOrder Tooltip	Change Order
SplitShip Tooltip	Splits this into a separate fleet (No more than one new fleet may be created in this way).
CantSplitSingleShip Tooltip	You can't split in a fleet with less than two ships.
RejoinShip Tooltip	Rejoins this into the original fleet.
CantSplitNoDeltaV Tooltip	You can't split out ships if no ships in the fleet have any delta-v.
CantSplitSpaceStations Tooltip	You can't split out space stations or satellites.
SelectAllAlliedShips Tooltip	Select All Allied Ships
GiveAllShipsAnOrder Tooltip	Give All Ships An Order
ExitTactical Tooltip	Return to Orbital View
CantExitTactical Tooltip	Can't Exit Until All Nearby Enemies are Destroyed or Out of Range
CantExitTactical VerboseTooltip	If you have drones or missiles still in range, you can destroy them with their remote control module.
AllEnemiesDisabled Message	All Enemies Are No Longer a Threat
AllEnemiesDisabled Tooltip	All enemy crafts have either been destroyed or disabled.
LostPower Message	%s %s has lost power generation
LostPower Tooltip	All powerplants on %s have been damaged beyond repair
OutOfDeltaV Message	Allied %s is out of delta-v
OutOfDeltaVDamage Tooltip	%s's engines have been damaged beyond repair
OutOfDeltaVEmpty Tooltip	%s is out of propellant
CraftDisabled Message	%s %s has been disabled
CraftDisabled Tooltip	%s craft %s has been either damaged beyond use or remotely disarmed
CraftDisarmed Message	%s %s has been disarmed
CraftDisarmed Tooltip	All weapons on %s have been disabled and delta-v has been reduced to zero
ArmorDamaged Message	%s %s's armor is being damaged
ArmorDamaged Tooltip	Damage is being inflicted upon armor of %s craft %s
ModuleDestroyed Message	%s %s has been destroyed
ModuleDestroyed Tooltip	%s %s on %s has been destroyed
LauncherLaunch Tooltip	%s is launching %ss
LauncherLaunchAllies Message	Allies are launching %ss
LauncherLaunchEnemies Message	Enemy is launching %ss
LauncherUI Launch1 Tooltip	Queues 1 payload to be launched.
LauncherUI Launch5 Tooltip	Queues 5 payloads to be launched.
LauncherUI Launch20 Tooltip	Queues 20 payloads to be launched.
LauncherUI LaunchAll Tooltip	Queues all payloads to be launched.
LauncherUI CancelLaunches Tooltip	Stops all queued launches.
LauncherUI LaunchWithOrder Tooltip	If enabled, anything launched will have a starting order.
LauncherUI SplitLaunches Tooltip	If enabled, anything launched will split into a separate fleet.
AlliedCrewKilled Message	Allied %s crew killed
EnemyCrewKilled Message	Enemy %s disabled
AlliedCrewKilled Tooltip	Allied crew of the %s have been killed by %s.
EnemyCrewKilled Tooltip	Enemy ship %s is disabled. All crew have been killed.
AlliedCrewKilled Acceleration Tooltip	excessive acceleration
AlliedCrewKilled Decompression Tooltip	rapid decompression
RemoteControlUI Disarm Tooltip	Permanently disarms the remote control system.
RemoteControlUI DistributeHoming Tooltip	If enabled, homing will distribute targets amongst fellow spacecrafts.
RemoteControlUI DefaultPhase Tooltip	When homing, let the phases be determined automatically.
RemoteControlUI BoostPhase Tooltip	When homing, lock in boost phase behavior, usually high unguided acceleration.
RemoteControlUI MidcoursePhase Tooltip	When homing, lock in midcourse phase behavior, usually course corrections only.
RemoteControlUI TerminalPhase Tooltip	When homing, lock in terminal phase behavior, usually high acceleration.

Preferences Interface Tooltip	Settings involving controls, UI, and interface.
Preferences Audio Tooltip	Settings involving volume of sound effects and music.
Preferences Graphics Tooltip	Settings involving all visual aspects in game. Does not affect the interface.
Preferences Gameplay Tooltip	Settings involving all play aspects of the game.
GameGraphicsSettings Fullscreen Tooltip	Enables fullscreen or windowed mode.
GameGraphicsSettings ScreenScaling_Percent Tooltip	Allows scaling down the screen resolution, increasing performance and UI size at the cost of lower visual fidelity.
GameGraphicsSettings VSync Tooltip	Enables Vertical Sync, which forces the game to refresh at the monitor's refresh rate. It caps the framerate but prevents screen tearing artifacts.
GameGraphicsSettings Brightness_Percent Tooltip	Adjusts the brightness of 3D object rendering in game only. The interface appearance is unaffected by this setting. 
GameGraphicsSettings FieldOfView_degrees Tooltip	The camera's horizontal field of view angle. Larger angles allow you to see more on screen at once, but reduces visual fidelity as a result.
GameGraphicsSettings Textures Tooltip	The settings of the textures in game, on planets and spacecrafts.
GameGraphicsSettings Lighting Tooltip	The settings of how complex the lighting is in game.
GameGraphicsSettings PostProcessing Tooltip	The visual effects that are applied to everything after the game has been drawn.
GameGraphicsSettings DisableCustomCursor Tooltip	Removes the custom cursor, and uses the default OS cursor instead.
LightingSettings ShadowMapQuality Tooltip	Determines the quality of shadows of spacecrafts, eclipses, and planetary rings.
LightingSettings RadiatorLighting Tooltip	Enables dynamic lighting from spacecraft radiators. If you experience poor performance, this is often the main culprit.
LightingSettings BounceLighting Tooltip	Enables bounce lighting of sunlight off of celestial bodies on to ships and other celestial bodies.
TextureSettings ArmorTextureQuality Tooltip	Determines the resolution of armor textures. This can be a major culprit of poor performance if it is too high.
TextureSettings ParallaxOcclusionMapQuality Tooltip	The visual quality of the parallax occlusion on asteroids and other small celestial bodies.
TextureSettings TextureSelfShadowingQuality Tooltip	The visual quality of self shadowing on asteroids and other small celestial bodies.
PostProcessSettings Antialiasing Tooltip	Smoothes visual edges of on screen shapes.
PostProcessSettings DrawDiffractionSpikes Tooltip	Draws the cross shaped bloom on stars and other glowing objects.
PostProcessSettings BloomAmount Tooltip	The amount of glow that bright objects and stars will have.
PostProcessSettings RenderDiffractionShimmer Tooltip	Enables visual shimmering of gases and fluids with differing indices of refraction, such as with engine exhaust.
AudioSettings MasterVolume_Percent Tooltip	Affects the volume of every sound or music piece played.
AudioSettings MusicVolume_Percent Tooltip	The volume of the background music.
AudioSettings InterfaceVolume_Percent Tooltip	The volume of the user interface, and the speech.
AudioSettings EffectsVolume_Percent Tooltip	The volume of the sound effects, such as the proximity beeping, or the creak of your selected ship's chassis when it's hit.
InterfaceSettings Language Tooltip	The language that all text will be written in. Changing this may take some time.
InterfaceSettings VerboseTooltips Tooltip	Buttons will have additional info in their tooltips explaining what each button does in game.
InterfaceSettings GameTheme Tooltip	Allows you to customize the theme, which affects the color, text font, and gradients of the interface.
InterfaceSettings InvertMouseRotation Tooltip	Reverses the camera pan and roll directions when using the mouse or keyboard.
InterfaceSettings LockCameraToPlane Tooltip	The camera orientation will be locked in an "upwards" direction relative to the most relevant orbit.
InterfaceSettings ProjectOrbitsOnToSelectedPlane Tooltip	Projects fleet orbits on to the selected fleet's orbit with a visualizer, to clarify where orbits are when out-of-plane.
InterfaceSettings ProjectTrajectoryOnToReferenceFrame Tooltip	Any trajectories will be projected on to the reference frame's current orbit, or on to the largest other fleet in the same hill sphere.
InterfaceSettings UseMouseDragForThrustManipulation Tooltip	When manipulating burns, the mouse must be held down, instead of a two-click setup.
InterfaceSettings UseMultiaxialThrustManipulation Tooltip	Enables a dual-axis thrust manipulator, in addition to the default single-axis thrust manipulator.
InterfaceSettings ShowDetailedDesignList Tooltip	Makes the ship design and module design main screens show a detailed grid view.
InterfaceSettings ShowCelestialGridWhenRotating Tooltip	Displays the celestial grid whenever you rotate the camera.
InterfaceSettings ShowLagrangePoints Tooltip	Shows lagrange points in orbital view if they are relevant to the level.
InterfaceSettings DisableUnitGrouping Tooltip	All units, including Drones and Missiles, will have their own separate selection box.
InterfaceSettings GroupUnitsByFive Tooltip	Drones and Missiles of a similar type will be grouped into fives for selection.
InterfaceSettings GroupAllSimilarUnits Tooltip	Drones and Missiles of a similar type will all be grouped for selection.
GameplaySettings PauseCombatAtStart Tooltip	If enabled, combat with start out paused.
GameplaySettings ShowCombatNotifications Tooltip	Displays popup notifications when weapons are firing, and when ships are taking damage.
GameplaySettings ShipsMarqueeSelect Tooltip	In combat, makes the left mouse button do marquee selection rather than pan the camera.
GameplaySettings ModuleAdvancedOptionsOpen Tooltip	If enabled, when viewing ships, module advanced options will be open by default.
AmmoModule SuppliedModule Tooltip	Which weapons module that this ammo module is supposed to provide ammunition for.
AmmoModule AmmoBay Tooltip	The container which contains the actual ammo.
AmmoModule ArmorComposition Tooltip	The material that should be used to protect the ammunition.
AmmoModule ArmorThickness_m Tooltip	How thick the armor should be protecting the ammunition.
AmmoBaySubModule Capacity Tooltip	The number of rounds this ammo bay should provide.
AmmoBaySubModule Stacks Tooltip	How many stacks tall the ammo should be stacked. More stacks will make the ammo bay longer and thinner.
MassProjectileSubModule Composition Tooltip	The material makeup of the projectile or sabot.
MassProjectileSubModule BoreRadius_m Tooltip	The radius of the projectile or sabot.
MassProjectileSubModule Mass_kg Tooltip	The projectile or sabot's mass.
MassProjectileSubModule Tracer Tooltip	The tracer for the projectile. If the projectile is a sabot, there will be no tracer.
MassProjectileSubModule Payload Tooltip	If a payload is launched, the projectile is simply a sabot which is ignored after the payload exits.
BallisticTubeSubModule Composition Tooltip	The material which the barrel is made out of. Strong materials are needed to prevent the barrel from rupturing from the internal pressure.
BallisticTubeSubModule Length_m Tooltip	The length of the barrel. A longer barrel yields a longer time for the propellant to accelerate the projectile and/or sabot.
BallisticTubeSubModule Thickness_m Tooltip	How thick the barrel should be around the bore. A thicker barrel is heavier, turns slower, but can withstand greater internal pressure.
BarrelArmorSubModule Composition Tooltip	The material the armor is made out of. In addition to defense, the armor is how the barrel radiates heat.
BarrelArmorSubModule Thickness_m Tooltip	How thick the armor is made.
SolidPropellantSubModule Composition Tooltip	The type of explosive propellant that should be used to launch the projectile.
SolidPropellantSubModule Mass_kg Tooltip	The mass of the propllant used. More mass yields greater pressures and thus greater accelerations.
SolidPropellantSubModule GrainRadius_m Tooltip	The size of each individual propellant grain. Smaller sizes yields faster burn rates, which increases instantaneous acceleration and pressure.
ConventionalGunModule Barrel Tooltip	The ballistic tube where the propellant is combusted from and the projectile is expelled.
ConventionalGunModule BarrelArmor Tooltip	The armor on the ballistic tube.
ConventionalGunModule Propellant Tooltip	The propellant is the explosive that combusts and launches the projectile.
ConventionalGunModule Projectile Tooltip	The projectile is either a bullet that is fired, or a sabot that launches a payload from this cannon.
ConventionalGunModule Loader Tooltip	The loader is an electromagnetic accelerator which reloads the cannon.
ConventionalGunModule ExternalMount Tooltip	An external mount can't rotate and is the cheapest option. 
ConventionalGunModule InternalMount Tooltip	An internal mount can't rotate, but is armored by the spacecraft it is on. It will increase the spacecraft's armor cost. Additionally, overheating is much more common.
ConventionalGunModule Turret Tooltip	A turret mount can rotate and aim.
ConventionalGunModule AttachedAmmoBay Tooltip	An optional ammo bay to add to this weapon. If not used, an external ammo supply will be needed.
ConventionalGunModule TargetsShips Tooltip	Determines if this gun should be fired at capital ships.
ConventionalGunModule TargetsShots Tooltip	Determines if this gun should be fired at missiles and drones.
RailsSubModule Composition Tooltip	The electrically conductive material that makes up the rails.
RailsSubModule Thickness_m Tooltip	The width of the rails beyond the bore radius.
RailsSubModule Length_m Tooltip	How long the rails should be. Longer rails have more time to accelerate the armature.
RailgunModule PowerConsumption_W Tooltip	The total electrical power that is passed through the rails into the projectile. If a capacitor bank is in use, the power instead determines how fast the capacitors charge.
RailgunModule Capacitor Tooltip	The capacitor bank to use to discharge power through the rails. Capacitors may allow higher velocities at the cost of rate of fire.
RailgunModule Rails Tooltip	The rails are a pair of electrical conductive rails which serves as two sides of the electrical circuit that is made with the armature.
RailgunModule BarrelArmor Tooltip	The armor on the rails.
RailgunModule Armature Tooltip	The armature is the electrical projectile that completes the circuit between the two rails. If a payload is launched, the armature is simply a sabot which accelerates the payload and is discarded after launch. Otherwise, the armature is the projectile fired.
RailgunModule Loader Tooltip	The loader is an electromagnetic loader which reloads the railgun as well initiates the starting projectile velocity into the rails.
RailgunModule ExternalMount Tooltip	An external mount can't rotate and is the cheapest option. 
RailgunModule InternalMount Tooltip	An internal mount can't rotate, but is armored by the spacecraft it is on. It will increase the spacecraft's armor cost. Additionally, overheating is much more common.
RailgunModule Turret Tooltip	A turret mount can rotate and aim.
RailgunModule AttachedAmmoBay Tooltip	An optional ammo bay to add to this weapon. If not used, an external ammo supply will be needed.
RailgunModule TargetsShips Tooltip	Determines if this gun should be fired at capital ships.
RailgunModule TargetsShots Tooltip	Determines if this gun should be fired at missiles and drones.
SolenoidSubModule Composition Tooltip	The electrically conductive material that the coil is made out of.
SolenoidSubModule WireRadius_m Tooltip	The radius of the wires that make up the coil. A greater radius improves stability and is harder to destroy, as well as having a lower electrical resistance, while at the same time being more massive, costlier, and harder to rotate.
SolenoidSubModule NumberOfTurns Tooltip	The number of horizontal turns that make up the coil. In general, more coils makes for a greater magnetic field.
SolenoidSubModule NumberOfLayers Tooltip	The number of vertical turns that the coil should be wound. In general, more coils makes for a greater magnetic field.
CoilgunModule PowerConsumption_W Tooltip	The total electrical power that is fed into, and ultimately will be used by this weapon. If a capacitor bank is in use, the power instead determines how fast the capacitors charge.
CoilgunModule Capacitor Tooltip	The capacitor bank to use to discharge power through the rails. Capacitors may allow higher velocities at the cost of rate of fire.
CoilgunModule Coil Tooltip	The coil is a solenoid which generates a magnetic field upon which the projectile is accelerated through.
CoilgunModule NumberOfStages Tooltip	A coilgun is usually composed of multiple repeated coils. More stages increases the exit velocity. Multiple stages have the advantage over a single long stage in that each stage can dissipate heat better over the course of the projectile launch. Additionally, the electrical resistance is reduced since each stage is electrically shorter than a single long stage.
CoilgunModule BarrelArmor Tooltip	The armor on the solenoids.
CoilgunModule Armature Tooltip	The armature is the ferromagnetic projectile which is fired from a coilgun. If the armature includes a payload, the ferromagnetic projectile is simply the sabot which carries the payload.
CoilgunModule Loader Tooltip	The loader is an electromagnetic loader which reloads the coilgun as well initiates the starting projectile velocity into the first coil.
CoilgunModule ExternalMount Tooltip	An external mount can't rotate and is the cheapest option. 
CoilgunModule InternalMount Tooltip	An internal mount can't rotate, but is armored by the spacecraft it is on. It will increase the spacecraft's armor cost. Additionally, overheating is much more common.
CoilgunModule Turret Tooltip	A turret mount can rotate and aim.
CoilgunModule AttachedAmmoBay Tooltip	An optional ammo bay to add to this weapon. If not used, an external ammo supply will be needed.
CoilgunModule TargetsShips Tooltip	Determines if this gun should be fired at capital ships.
CoilgunModule TargetsShots Tooltip	Determines if this gun should be fired at missiles and drones.
LensSubModule Composition Tooltip	The material that this lens or mirror is to be made from.
NonlinearOpticSubModule Composition Tooltip	The material that this nonlinear optic crystal should be composed of.
FrequencyDoublerSubModule NonlinearOptic Tooltip	A nonlinear optic crystal is necessary to combine two photons of equal wavelength and output one photon of half the wavelength.
FrequencyDoublerSubModule OpticLength_m Tooltip	The length of the optical crystal, which affects the dephasing factor of the nolinear optic.
FrequencyDoublerSubModule OpticRadius_m Tooltip	The radius of the optical crystal, which affects the beam divergence of the nonlinear optic.
ArcLampPumpSubModule GasComposition Tooltip	The excitation gas which current is fed through to generate photons of various wavelengths.
ArcLampPumpSubModule EnvelopeComposition Tooltip	The envelope which encloses the excitation gas. It should as transparent as possible, and as strong as possible to withstand the internal pressures.
ArcLampPumpSubModule PowerSupplied_W Tooltip	The electrical power which is fed through the excitation gas, and ultimately determines the maximum possible output power of the laser.
ArcLampPumpSubModule Radius_m Tooltip	The radius of the arc lamp which the gas is held in with.
ArcLampPumpSubModule CavityWallComposition Tooltip	The cavity walls materials, which should be as reflective as possible to reflect all the arclamp's light into the lasing crystal.
ArcLampPumpSubModule CavityCoolantComposition Tooltip	The cavity coolant material, which carries away excess heat from the arc lamp cavity. It should be as transparent as possible to the desired wavelengths.
ArcLampPumpSubModule CavitySemimajorAxis_m Tooltip	The cavity ellipse's semimajor axis is half the longer dimension.
ArcLampPumpSubModule CavitySemiminorAxis_m Tooltip	The cavity ellipse's semiminor axis is half the shorter dimension.
FixedLaserMountSubModule ArmorComposition Tooltip	The armor cap to use on the mount when not firing.
FixedLaserMountSubModule ArmorThickness_m Tooltip	The armor cap thickness when not firing.
LaserModule ArcLamp Tooltip	The arc lamp is the pumping source of this laser: a lamp filled with a gas which current is passed through to generate photons. The photons are bounced about the elliptical cavity, until they can be absorbed by the lasing crystal.
LaserModule GainMedium Tooltip	The gain medium is the lasing crystal which the actual lasing takes place within.
LaserModule OpticalNodes Tooltip	The number of optical nodes of the lasing crystal. More nodes yields a longer lasing crystal.
LaserModule LasingRodRadius_m Tooltip	The radius of the lasing crystal rod.
LaserModule Mirror Tooltip	The mirror at one end of the lasing rod which should be as reflective as possible.
LaserModule OutputCoupler Tooltip	The output coupler at the other end of the lasing rod which should be reflective but also allow light to exit in order to generate the laser.
LaserModule CoolantTurbopump Tooltip	The turbopump which pumps the coolant through the lasing cavity.
LaserModule CoolantInletTemperature_K Tooltip	The temperature at which the coolant is initially pumped through the cavity.
LaserModule FrequencyDoubler Tooltip	A frequency doubler may be optionally used to halve the wavelength of the exiting photons at a cost of efficiency.
LaserModule SecondFrequencyDoubler Tooltip	A second frequency doubler may further halve the wavelength.
LaserModule ApertureRadius_m Tooltip	The final aperture with which the laser is passed through after passed through the focusing mirror. This size determines the beam waist as well as the diffraction and divergence of the beam.
LaserModule FocusingMirror Tooltip	The deforming mirror which focuses the laser at variable focal lengths. It should be able to withstand the intense power of the final laser exiting through it.
LaserModule Turret Tooltip	A turret is necessary for any laser to aim it at targets.
LaserModule FixedMount Tooltip	A fixed mount only enables firing in a single direction, but saves on mass and power.
LaserModule EngagementRange_km Tooltip	The range at which the laser is deemed viable for firing. A laser can technically have infinite range, but its intensity drops over distance due to diffraction and divergence.
LaserModule TargetsShips Tooltip	Determines if this weapon should be fired at capital ships.
LaserModule TargetsShots Tooltip	Determines if this weapon should be fired at missiles and drones.
StandaloneLaserMountModule LaserFeed Tooltip	The laser that will feed into this mount. The laser will determine the aperture size and lens.
StandaloneLaserMountModule Turret Tooltip	A turret is necessary for any laser to aim it at targets.
StandaloneLaserMountModule FixedMount Tooltip	A fixed mount only enables firing in a single direction, but saves on mass and power.
StandaloneLaserMountModule TargetsShips Tooltip	Determines if this weapon should be fired at capital ships.
StandaloneLaserMountModule TargetsShots Tooltip	Determines if this weapon should be fired at missiles and drones.
CarrierModule Payload Tooltip	The exact spacecraft or payload that this module should launch.
CarrierModule Launcher Tooltip	The electromagnetic launcher which actually accelerates the payload.
CarrierModule CoolantTurbopump Tooltip	The pump which pushes coolant through the launcher.
CarrierModule CoolantInletTemperature_K Tooltip	The temperature at which the coolant enters the launcher.
CarrierModule ArmorMaterial Tooltip	The armor layer protecting the launcher from external fire.
CarrierModule ArmorThickness_m Tooltip	The thickness of the armor over the launcher.
CarrierModule EngagementRange_km Tooltip	The range at which this weapon should be fired at enemy targets. Unnecessary if this is to not be used in combat.
CarrierModule TargetsShips Tooltip	Determines if this weapon should be fired at capital ships.
CarrierModule TargetsShots Tooltip	Determines if this weapon should be fired at missiles and drones.
CarrierModule LaunchCountCap Tooltip	If nonzero, this limits the total number of payloads this will launch in combat. For example, if this is 10 on a missile launcher, it will not launch if as long as at least 10 friendly missiles are in flight.
BlastLauncherModule Payload Tooltip	The exact spacecraft or payload that this module should launch.
BlastLauncherModule PayloadRows Tooltip	How many payloads wide the launcher is.
BlastLauncherModule PayloadColumns Tooltip	How many payloads tall the launcher is.
BlastLauncherModule ExplosiveMaterial Tooltip	The explosive used to eject the payloads.
BlastLauncherModule ExplosiveMass_kg Tooltip	The mass of each explosive bolt used per payload.
BlastLauncherModule ArmorMaterial Tooltip	The armor layer on the launcher protecting the payload and explosives.
BlastLauncherModule ArmorThickness_m Tooltip	The thickness of the armor layer over the launcher.
BlastLauncherModule EngagementRange_km Tooltip	The range at which this weapon should be fired at enemy targets. Unnecessary if this is to not be used in combat.
BlastLauncherModule TargetsShips Tooltip	Determines if this weapon should be fired at capital ships.
BlastLauncherModule TargetsShots Tooltip	Determines if this weapon should be fired at missiles and drones.
BlastLauncherModule LaunchCountCap Tooltip	If nonzero, this limits the total number of payloads this will launch in combat. For example, if this is 10 on a missile launcher, it will not launch if as long as at least 10 friendly missiles are in flight.
CombustionMixtureSubModule CombustionReaction Tooltip	The combustion reaction that this will use. It will determine what materials are used.
CombustionMixtureSubModule DelayComposition Tooltip	The delay composition is material that is added to slow the reaction rate of the combustion, at the expense of total energy.
CombustionMixtureSubModule DelayCompositionMassFraction Tooltip	The fraction of the mixture which will be delay composition, rather than the explosive materials.
ProximityDetonator HardRange_km Tooltip	The distance at which the detonator will detonate. If zero, the closest point of approach is used instead.
ProximityDetonator ActivationRange_km Tooltip	The range at which the detonator will become active. Once active, the ordnance will trigger on closest point of approach or at a the hard range.
ProximityDetonator MinimumRange_km Tooltip	If allied capital ships are within the minimum range, the proximity detonator will not trigger.
ProximityDetonator OverrideTimer_s Tooltip	If non-zero, the ordnance will detonate when the timer runs out if it hasn't already. This will override minimum range, and it will only trigger if there are enemies in the same combat.
ExplosiveModule Length_m Tooltip	The length of the explosive mixture.
ExplosiveModule ExplosiveMass_kg Tooltip	The mass of explosives used.
ExplosiveModule ExplosiveComposition Tooltip	The type of explosives used.
ExplosiveModule ShrapnelMass_kg Tooltip	The mass of shrapnel. The shrapnel will be surrounding the cylindrical explosive mixture, and explode circularly outwardly only.
ExplosiveModule ShrapnelComposition Tooltip	The type of shrapnel to be used.
ExplosiveModule Detonator Tooltip	The device that will trigger detonation.
ExplosiveModule TargetsShips Tooltip	Determines if this weapon will trigger against capital ships.
ExplosiveModule TargetsShots Tooltip	Determines if this weapon will trigger against missiles and drones.
FlareModule ArmorComposition Tooltip	The armor material which will encase the flare.
FlareModule ArmorThickness_m Tooltip	The thickness of the armor that will encase the flare.
FlareModule Cylinder_m Tooltip	The dimensions of the flare.
FlareModule Pyrotechnic Tooltip	The materials which will ultimately deflagrate.
NuclearPayloadModule CoreComposition Tooltip	The type of fissile material which will undergo nuclear fission.
NuclearPayloadModule ReflectorComposition Tooltip	The type of reflector which will reflect the neutrons back into the fissile core.
NuclearPayloadModule SlowExplosive Tooltip	The inner explosive which will trigger slowly. A large ratio between the explosive velocity of the slow and fast explosive is needed for efficient compression.
NuclearPayloadModule FastExplosive Tooltip	The outer explosive which will trigger quickly. A large ratio between the explosive velocity of the slow and fast explosive is needed for efficient compression.
NuclearPayloadModule CoreMass_kg Tooltip	The mass of the fissile core.
NuclearPayloadModule Enrichment_Percent Tooltip	How enriched the fissile core should be. Greater enrichment is expensive but more efficient.
NuclearPayloadModule HollowCoreRadius_m Tooltip	The inner core can be hollowed out to accomodate a greater allowed critical mass. It is also needed if fusion fuel is to be used, as the hollow inner center is where the fusion fuel will rest.
NuclearPayloadModule InnerExplosiveWidth_m Tooltip	The width of the inner slow exposive beyond the fissile core.
NuclearPayloadModule FusionBoost Tooltip	The nuclear device can be boosted with a fusion reaction in the hollow core, increasing the efficiency of the nuclear detonation through greater neutron economy, and also providing additional energy yield.
NuclearPayloadModule FusionFuelDensity_kg__m3 Tooltip	The density of fusion fuel in the hollow core.
NuclearPayloadModule Detonator Tooltip	The device which will trigger detonation.
NuclearPayloadModule DelayedTrigger Tooltip	If enabled, once the proximity trigger hits, a short delay will occur before the ordnance detonates. Also editable in combat.
NuclearPayloadModule TargetsShips Tooltip	Determines if this weapon will trigger against capital ships.
NuclearPayloadModule TargetsShots Tooltip	Determines if this weapon will trigger against missiles and drones.
ThermocoupleSubModule PTypeComposition Tooltip	The p-type and n-type materials of a thermocouple determine the ultimate output of the thermocouple through the absolute difference between the two materials' Thermoelectric Sensitivity.
ThermocoupleSubModule NTypeComposition Tooltip	The p-type and n-type materials of a thermocouple determine the ultimate output of the thermocouple through the absolute difference between the two materials' Thermoelectric Sensitivity.
ThermocoupleSubModule Length_m Tooltip	The length of the thermcouple that the heat gradient must pass through. A greater length allows a more gentle heating gradient, which is less efficient, but reduces thermal expansion stress.
RadioisotopePelletSubModule Fuel Tooltip	The radioactive fuel material that is used.
RadioisotopePelletSubModule Mass_kg Tooltip	The mass of the radioactive fuel.
RadioisotopePelletSubModule Height_m Tooltip	The height of the fuel pellet.
RadioisotopeThermoelectricGeneratorModule FuelPellet Tooltip	The radioactive fuel pellet which ultimately generates power for the generator through radioactive decay.
RadioisotopeThermoelectricGeneratorModule Thermocouple Tooltip	The thermocouple which converts the fuel's heat gradient into energy.
RadioisotopeThermoelectricGeneratorModule ExitTemperature_K Tooltip	The temperature at the exit of the thermocouple into the coolant.
RadioisotopeThermoelectricGeneratorModule CoolantInletTemperature_K Tooltip	The temperature that the coolant has before passing through the exit of the thermocouple.
RadioisotopeThermoelectricGeneratorModule Cooler Tooltip	The coolant piping which lines the thermocouple exit and carries heat away from the thermocouple.
RadioisotopeThermoelectricGeneratorModule Coolant Tooltip	The coolant used to cool the generator.
RadioisotopeThermoelectricGeneratorModule Turbopump Tooltip	The pump which determines how fast the coolant should loop through the system.
ThermoelectricFissionReactorModule ReactorCoreDimensions_m Tooltip	The radius and height of the nuclear reactor.
ThermoelectricFissionReactorModule NuclearReactor Tooltip	The reactor which is the actual heat generator of this powerplant.
ThermoelectricFissionReactorModule InnerTurbopump Tooltip	The turbopump which pumps nuclear coolant into the reactor and then into one side of the thermocouple in a loop.
ThermoelectricFissionReactorModule ThermocoupleInnerDimensions_m Tooltip	The thermocouple is an extruded annulus. The radius is the inner radius of the annulus, and the height is the height of the thermocouple.
ThermoelectricFissionReactorModule Thermocouple Tooltip	The thermocouple has heat transfer from the reactor side to the radiator side, and generates a voltage from the heat gradient.
ThermoelectricFissionReactorModule ThermocoupleExitTemperature_K Tooltip	The temperature at the thermocouple exit into the radiator side coolant loop.
ThermoelectricFissionReactorModule InnerCooler Tooltip	The coolant pipes which line the inside of the thermocouple.
ThermoelectricFissionReactorModule OuterCooler Tooltip	The coolant pipes which line the outside of the thermocouple.
ThermoelectricFissionReactorModule OuterCoolantInletTemperature_K Tooltip	The temperature of the coolant which initially flows by the thermocouple outside exit.
ThermoelectricFissionReactorModule OuterCoolant Tooltip	The coolant used in the outer coolant loop, passing between the thermocouple and the radiators.
ThermoelectricFissionReactorModule OuterTurbopump Tooltip	The turbopump which pumps coolant from the thermocouple outside exit to the radiators.
TurboelectricFissionReactorModule ReactorCoreDimensions_m Tooltip	The radius and height of the nuclear reactor.
TurboelectricFissionReactorModule NuclearReactor Tooltip	The reactor where the heat is generated in this powerplant.
TurboelectricFissionReactorModule Turbopump Tooltip	The turbopump which pumps fluid through the entire loop, first into the nuclear reactor, then through the turbine, then through the radiator heat exchanger, and then back.
TurboelectricFissionReactorModule Turbine Tooltip	The turbine is what extracts energy from the heated fluid.
TurboelectricFissionReactorModule CoolantInletPressure_Pa Tooltip	The pressure at which the coolant enters the turbopump.
TurboelectricFissionReactorModule CoolantInletTemperature_K Tooltip	The temperature at which the coolant enters the turbopump.
CrewModule StructureMaterial Tooltip	The material from which the crew module superstructure is composed.
CrewModule CrewCapacity Tooltip	The number of people that this crew module should provide accomodation for.
CrewModule Decks Tooltip	The number of decks, or stories of this crew module.
CrewModule ShellThickness_m Tooltip	The thickness of the outer structure of the module, acting as both atmospheric containment, and armor against weapons fire.
CrewModule Turbopump Tooltip	The pump which carries coolant away from this module.
CrewModule Coolant Tooltip	The coolant used to cool this module.
HomingPhase GuidanceLaw Tooltip	The law governing how the craft will be guided to the target.
HomingPhase Accelerate Tooltip	If enabled, the craft will blend in the guidance law with a pure pursuit algorithm.
HomingPhase DampingEngineMultiplier Tooltip	A dampening factor on the guidance law. This is multiplied by the engine acceleration to determine how the guidance law should be blended out (either with pure pursuit if "Accelerate" is chosen, or with no burn at all otherwise). A value of zero means only the guidance law will be used. Pure guidance laws generally fail with gimbaled or unthrottled engines, so a dampening factor is highly recommended.
HomingProperties PropellantForBoostPhase_Percent Tooltip	How much delta-v should be spent on the boost phase. The boost phase ends when this delta-v amount is expended.
HomingProperties BoostPhase Tooltip	The phase where the craft initially accelerates at the target. Will never trigger if remaining delta-v is too low, or if no propellant is set aside for this phase.
HomingProperties MidcoursePhase Tooltip	The phase where the craft coasts to the target after boosting.
HomingProperties TerminalPhase Tooltip	The phase when the craft approaches the target. It will trigger when the missile detects it has enough delta-v left to constantly burn the rest of the way.
HomingProperties IrradianceCutoff_Percent Tooltip	What percent of the maximum irradiance we should consider valid targets. For example, 20% would treat anything producing 20% or more heat of the greatest heat signature as a target.
RemoteControlModule AspectRatio Tooltip	The aspect ratio of the control's shape, for short and fat versus long and thin remote controls.
RemoteControlModule HomingBehavior Tooltip	How a craft with this remote control will behavior when given a homing order.
FuseModule AspectRatio Tooltip	The aspect ratio of the fuse's shape, for short and fat versus long and thin fuses.
FuseModule TriggerEngines Tooltip	If enabled, the fuse will ignite all engines permanently.
FuseModule EngineDelay_s Tooltip	How long the engine fuse will wait before firing.
FuseModule TriggerPayloads Tooltip	If enabled, the fuse will ignite all ordnances.
FuseModule PayloadDelay_s Tooltip	How long the ordnance fuse will wait before triggering.
ReactionWheelSubModule Composition Tooltip	The material that composes the momentum wheel. Stronger materials are need for faster speeds or greater radii.
ReactionWheelSubModule RotationalSpeed_RPM Tooltip	The speed at which the wheel spins. Fast speeds require more power, and stronger materials.
TurretMotorSubModule PermanentMagnet Tooltip	The magnet that the stator is built from. Coercivity and remanence are the prime factors for this material.
TurretMotorSubModule PowerConsumption_W Tooltip	The power that the motors should draw. This will affect the size and mass of the motors.
LinearInductionMotorSubModule Stator Tooltip	The ferromagnetic stator material which is stationary, and generates the magnetic field.
LinearInductionMotorSubModule TrackLength_m Tooltip	The length of the motor track. A longer track allows greater acceleration.
LinearInductionMotorSubModule StatorDepth_m Tooltip	The thickness of the stator along the track.
LinearInductionMotorSubModule Forcer Tooltip	The electrically conductive material which has current passed through it to, and moves the payload along.
LinearInductionMotorSubModule ForcerRadius_m Tooltip	The size of the forcer. A greater size reduces the resistivity of it.
LinearInductionMotorSubModule Coolant Tooltip	The coolant which is passed through the forcer to cool it off as current heats it up.
LinearInductionMotorSubModule PowerConsumption_W Tooltip	The total electrical power that is passed through the forcer.
LinearInductionMotorSubModule Cooler Tooltip	The pipe system which cools off the forcer.
CapacitorSubModule DielectricComposition Tooltip	The dielectric medium is an insulator which allows electric voltage to build up across it. Relative permittivity and a high breakdown voltage are the most important qualities of a powerful capacitor. Use no material to make a vacuum capacitor.
CapacitorSubModule Dimensions_m Tooltip	The size of the capacitor. The dielectric is wound in a spiral in the capacitor.
CapacitorSubModule Separation_m Tooltip	The distance between the two terminals separated by the dielectric.
CapacitorBankSubModule Count Tooltip	The number of capacitors used in series.
CapacitorBankSubModule DielectricComposition Tooltip	The dielectric medium is an insulator which allows electric voltage to build up across it. Relative permittivity and a high breakdown voltage are the most important qualities of a powerful capacitor. Use no material to make a vacuum capacitor.
CapacitorBankSubModule Dimensions_m Tooltip	The size of the capacitor. The dielectric is wound in a spiral in the capacitor.
CapacitorBankSubModule Separation_m Tooltip	The distance between the two terminals separated by the dielectric.
LinearMotorSubModule PowerConsumption_W Tooltip	The power needed to operate this electromagnetic accelerator.
TurretSubModule InnerRadius_m Tooltip	The inner size of the turret, which determines the size of the momentum wheels within. Larger momentum wheels allow for greater turn speeds.
TurretSubModule ArmorComposition Tooltip	The material which makes up the armor of the turret.
TurretSubModule ArmorThickness_m Tooltip	The thickness of armor that the turret uses.
TurretSubModule ElectricActuators Tooltip	Actuators which will rotate the turret. Low power cost, low mass, but high volume.
TurretSubModule MomentumWheels Tooltip	Momentum Wheels rotate the turret. High power cost, high mass, but low volume.
ExtrudableTurretSubModule InnerRadius_m Tooltip	The inner size of the turret, which determines the size of the momentum wheels within. Larger momentum wheels allow for greater turn speeds.
ExtrudableTurretSubModule Extruded Tooltip	Extends the turret further. Allows for greater firing angles at the cost of more mass and a larger targetable area.
ExtrudableTurretSubModule ArmorComposition Tooltip	The material which makes up the armor of the turret.
ExtrudableTurretSubModule ArmorThickness_m Tooltip	The thickness of armor that the turret uses.
ExtrudableTurretSubModule ElectricActuators Tooltip	Actuators which will rotate the turret. Low power cost but high volume.
ExtrudableTurretSubModule MomentumWheels Tooltip	Momentum Wheels rotate the turret, high power cost but low volume.
RefuelerModule Pump Tooltip	The turbopump which pumps the fuel through the hose.
RefuelerModule HoseComposition Tooltip	The material which the hose is made from.
RefuelerModule FluidToPump Tooltip	The fluid that the module pumps.
RefuelerModule HoseRadius_m Tooltip	The radius of the hose that the fluid pumps through.
RefuelerModule HoseThickness_m Tooltip	The thickness of the hose used. A thick hose is needed to avoid rupturing from the pressure.
RefuelerModule HoseLength_m Tooltip	How long the hose is, ultimately determining the distance at which this module can refuel other spacecrafts.
RadiationShieldModule Composition Tooltip	The material which composes this shield. A high density material is generally best at stopping gamma radiation. Neutron radiation is best stopped by materials with very low molecular mass, such as hydrogen.
RadiationShieldModule Dimensions_m Tooltip	The thickness and radius of the radiation shield.
SpacerModule Dimensions_m Tooltip	The height and radius of the spacer.
NuclearReactorSubModule Coolant Tooltip	The coolant which carries the heat from the nuclear fission away from the core.
NuclearReactorSubModule Moderator Tooltip	The neutron moderator which slows the fast neutrons into thermal neutrons. Technically, the coolant can act as a moderator. This moderator is simply any additional solid material in the core which acts as a moderator.
NuclearReactorSubModule ModeratorMass_kg Tooltip	The mass of the solid neutron moderator within the core.
NuclearReactorSubModule Fuel Tooltip	The fissile fuel where the fission takes place in.
NuclearReactorSubModule FuelMass_kg Tooltip	The mass of fissile fuel that is in the core.
NuclearReactorSubModule FuelEnrichment_Percent Tooltip	How enriched the core fuel is. Greater enrichment is more expensive, but yields greater efficiency.
NuclearReactorSubModule ControlRodComposition Tooltip	The solid rods which make up the neutron poison for dampening the neutron multiplication rate when necessary.
NuclearReactorSubModule ControlRodMass_kg Tooltip	The mass of the control rods used to control the reaction.
NuclearReactorSubModule NeutronReflector Tooltip	The outer material which serves to reflect the neutrons back into the reactor. It also is the primary radiation shielding of the core.
NuclearReactorSubModule ReflectorThickness_m Tooltip	The thickness of the neutron reflector around the core.
NuclearReactorSubModule AverageNeutronFlux__m2_s Tooltip	The neutron flux which is to be maintained within the core. This determines how much fission energy is to be generated by the core, as well as how quickly the core converts its fuel into radioactive waste.
RadiatorModule Composition Tooltip	The material which makes up the radiators.
RadiatorModule PanelWidth_m Tooltip	The size of the panels perpendicular to the spacecraft they are on.
RadiatorModule Height_m Tooltip	The size of the panels parallel to the spacecraft they are on.
RadiatorModule Thickness_m Tooltip	The thickness of the radiator panels, not including armor. Greater thickness allows larger heat pipes to run through the radiator.
RadiatorModule ArmorThickness_m Tooltip	The thickness of material outside of the heat pipes, acting as armor against kinetic and photonic damage.
RadiatorModule Panels Tooltip	The number of panels long that this radiator should be made up of.
RadiatorModule SurfaceFinish Tooltip	The paint or thin external layer on the panels, which ultimately determines the emissivity of the panels.
RadiatorModule FrontTaper_radians Tooltip	The angle at which the radiator tapers from the front.
RadiatorModule BackTaper_radians Tooltip	The angle at which the radiator tapers from the back.
TurbopumpSubModule Motor Tooltip	The motor which spins the turbopump's blades.
TurbopumpSubModule Composition Tooltip	The material which makes up the turbopump's blades and outer shell.
TurbopumpSubModule PumpRadius_m Tooltip	The radius of the turbopump.
TurbopumpSubModule RotationalSpeed_RPM Tooltip	The speed at which the turbopump should operate. Faster speeds require much more power.
TurbineSubModule Composition Tooltip	The turbine's material makeup, from the blades to the outer shell.
TurbineSubModule TurbineRadius_m Tooltip	The outer radius of the turbine.
TurbineSubModule HubRadius_m Tooltip	The radius of the turbine's inner hub.
TurbineSubModule AbsoluteInletAngle_degrees Tooltip	The inlet angle of the fluid flowing into the turbine.
TurbineSubModule StageCount Tooltip	The number of stages that compose the turbine.
PropellantTankModule Propellant Tooltip	The propellant that this tank should carry.
PropellantTankModule StructureComposition Tooltip	The structural material that contains the propellant.
PropellantTankModule ReactionMass_kg Tooltip	The mass of propellant that this tank carries.
PropellantTankModule HeightToRadiusRatio Tooltip	The aspect ratio of the tank. Greater values yield a long and skinny tank, while smaller values yield a short and fat tank.
PropellantTankModule External Tooltip	If active, the propellant tank will be attached to the external ship, and possibly can be discarded.
TankEjectorSubModule ExplosiveBoltMass_kg Tooltip	The mass of the bolts used to eject the propellant tank. If zero, the tank can not be discarded.
TankEjectorSubModule ExplosiveBoltComposition Tooltip	The explosive used to eject the propellant tank.
ThermalRocketSubModule ChamberComposition Tooltip	The material that makes up the rocket engine's combustion chamber and nozzle.
ThermalRocketSubModule ThroatRadius_m Tooltip	The radius of the throat of the rocket motor, which is the part between the chamber and the nozzle.
ThermalRocketSubModule ChamberWallThickness_m Tooltip	The thickness of the rocket engine's combustion chamber and nozzle.
ThermalRocketSubModule ChamberContractionRatio Tooltip	The rate at which the combustion chamber contracts to the throat. A large ratio yields a large chamber relative to the throat.
ThermalRocketSubModule NozzleExpansionRatio Tooltip	The rate at which the nozzle expands from the throat. A large ratio yields a large nozzle.
ThermalRocketSubModule NozzleExpansionAngle_degrees Tooltip	The angle at which the nozzle expands. A greater angle is less efficient, but is less massive, and shorter.
ThermalRocketSubModule RegenerativeCooling_Percent Tooltip	The percent of the combustion chamber and nozzle which is to be regeneratively cooled by inlet coolant pipes.
ThermalRocketSubModule Injector Tooltip	The turbopump which propels the propellant into the combustion chamber initially. It is what solely determines the mass flow rate of any rocket engine. It may not require power, as it can gather its power from a gas turbine generating power from the incoming propellant, as long as that propellant can provide that power supply.
NuclearThermalRocketModule ReactorCoreHeight_m Tooltip	The height of the nuclear reactor and the combustion chamber.
NuclearThermalRocketModule NuclearReactor Tooltip	The nuclear reactor which heats up the propellant and expels it from the engine.
NuclearThermalRocketModule ThermalRocket Tooltip	The supersonic combustion chamber and nozzle which expels the propellant. The nuclear reactor is located within the combustion chamber.
NuclearThermalRocketModule Gimbal Tooltip	The gimbal which orients the rocket engine. If the main engine of a spacecraft is ungimballed, the spacecraft must use vernier thrusters on the sides to turn and rotate.
NuclearThermalRocketModule GimbalAngle_degrees Tooltip	The angle of gimballing which is allowed by the gimbal. Increasing the angle allows faster turning, but increases the size needed by the engine dramatically.
CombustionRocketModule Reaction Tooltip	The combustion reaction which this rocket engine uses to propel itself with.
CombustionRocketModule StoichiometricMixtureRatio Tooltip	The mixture ratio in moles between each propellant. This is only relevant with bipropellant reactions. Deviating from a 1:1 ratio will always yield a lower temperature, but it can increase the final exhaust velocity if the final products have a lower molar mass. Additionally, it can allow for higher density of propellants if the mixture ratio is shifted towards the denser propellant (usually the oxidizer).
CombustionRocketModule ThermalRocket Tooltip	The supersonic combustion chamber and nozzle which expels the propellant.
CombustionRocketModule Gimbal Tooltip	The gimbal which orients the rocket engine. If the main engine of a spacecraft is ungimballed, the spacecraft must use vernier thrusters on the sides to turn and rotate.
CombustionRocketModule GimbalAngle_degrees Tooltip	The angle of gimballing which is allowed by the gimbal. Increasing the angle allows faster turning, but increases the size needed by the engine dramatically.
ResistojetModule PowerSupplied_W Tooltip	The power supplied to the resistojet, and ultimately determines how the propellant is heated.
ResistojetModule Propellant Tooltip	The propellant which is supplied to the resistojet and is expelled through the nozzle.
ResistojetModule CoilComposition Tooltip	The material which the resistor coil is made out of.
ResistojetModule ChamberLength_m Tooltip	The length of the combustion chamber where the resistor coil resides.
ResistojetModule CoilRadius_m Tooltip	The radius of the resistor that forms the coil within the resistojet.
ResistojetModule ThermalRocket Tooltip	The supersonic combustion chamber and nozzle which expels the propellant. The resistor coil is located within the combustion chamber.
ResistojetModule Gimbal Tooltip	The gimbal which orients the rocket engine. If the main engine of a spacecraft is ungimballed, the spacecraft must use vernier thrusters on the sides to turn and rotate.
ResistojetModule GimbalAngle_degrees Tooltip	The angle of gimballing which is allowed by the gimbal. Increasing the angle allows faster turning, but increases the size needed by the engine dramatically.
MagnetoplasmadynamicThrusterModule CathodeRadius_m Tooltip	The size of the cathode at the center of the thruster.
MagnetoplasmadynamicThrusterModule ChamberThickness_m Tooltip	The distance between the central cathode and the outer anode shell.
MagnetoplasmadynamicThrusterModule AnodeThickness_m Tooltip	The thickness of the anode shell of the thruster.
MagnetoplasmadynamicThrusterModule ThrusterLength_m Tooltip	The length of the thruster, from the anode tip to the insulator at the base.
MagnetoplasmadynamicThrusterModule CathodeComposition Tooltip	The electrically conductive material that the cathode is made of.
MagnetoplasmadynamicThrusterModule AnodeComposition Tooltip	The electrically conductive material that the anode is made of.
MagnetoplasmadynamicThrusterModule InsulatorComposition Tooltip	The electrically resistive material that the insulator at the base is made of.
MagnetoplasmadynamicThrusterModule Propellant Tooltip	The propellant that is to be pumped through the thruster, accelerated, and expelled as exhaust. Monatomic propellants, like noble gases, are preferred, since they do not have to be dissociated before being ionized.
MagnetoplasmadynamicThrusterModule Current_A Tooltip	The electrical current that is run through the thruster, from cathode, to ionized propellant, to anode.
MagnetoplasmadynamicThrusterModule Injector Tooltip	The turbopump which propels the propellant into the thruster. It solely determines the mass flow rate, and the power used by it must be accounted for, along with the thruster's power.
MagnetoplasmadynamicThrusterModule Gimbal Tooltip	The gimbal which orients the rocket engine. If the main engine of a spacecraft is ungimballed, the spacecraft must use vernier thrusters on the sides to turn and rotate.
MagnetoplasmadynamicThrusterModule GimbalAngle_degrees Tooltip	The angle of gimballing which is allowed by the gimbal. Increasing the angle allows faster turning, but increases the size needed by the engine dramatically.
BlackBoxEngineModule EngineName Tooltip	The name of your custom, hypothetical engine.
BlackBoxEngineModule ModelFileName Tooltip	The name of the .obj to use for your engine. The obj file must be located in [SaveDirectory]/Mods/Models/. Put in the obj name, but leave off the ".obj" suffix. If the obj file is not found, a simple cylinder is used instead.
BlackBoxEngineModule Dimensions Tooltip	The radius and height of your engine.
BlackBoxEngineModule Mass_kg Tooltip	The total mass of your engine.
BlackBoxEngineModule PrimaryComposition Tooltip	The main material that your engine is made out of.
BlackBoxEngineModule PowerConsumption_W Tooltip	How much power your engine requires.
BlackBoxEngineModule Propellant Tooltip	The propellant that your engine expels.
BlackBoxEngineModule ExhaustVelocity_km__s Tooltip	The exhaust velocity of your hypothetical engine.
BlackBoxEngineModule Thrust_N Tooltip	The thrust of your engine. This and your exhaust velocity will determine your mass flow rate.
BlackBoxEngineModule HeatSignature_W Tooltip	How much heat your exhaust plume produces, for determining how homing missiles will react to this engine.
BlackBoxEngineModule GimbalAngle_degrees Tooltip	The angle of gimballing which is allowed by the gimbal. Increasing the angle allows faster turning.
BlackBoxWeaponModule WeaponName Tooltip	The name of your custom, hypothetical weapon.
BlackBoxWeaponModule ModelFileName Tooltip	The name of the .obj to use for your weapon. The obj file must be located in [SaveDirectory]/Mods/Models/. Put in the obj name, but leave off the ".obj" suffix. If the obj file is not found, a simple cylinder is used instead.
BlackBoxWeaponModule Dimensions Tooltip	The radius and height of your weapon.
BlackBoxWeaponModule Mass_kg Tooltip	The total mass of your weapon.
BlackBoxWeaponModule PrimaryComposition Tooltip	The main material that your weapon is made out of.
BlackBoxWeaponModule PowerConsumption_W Tooltip	How much power your weapon requires.
BlackBoxWeaponModule MuzzleVelocity_km__s Tooltip	The muzzle velocity of any projectile your weapon launches.
BlackBoxWeaponModule Accuracy_radians Tooltip	The accuracy of the projectile your weapon launches.
BlackBoxWeaponModule Projectile Tooltip	The actual projectile that your weapon fires.
BlackBoxWeaponModule LaserBeam Tooltip	The actual laser beam properties that your weapon fires.
BlackBoxWeaponModule ReloadTime_s Tooltip	How long it takes your weapon to reload between shots.
BlackBoxWeaponModule Turret Tooltip	A turret is necessary if the cannon is to be able to rotate and hit targets within a firing arc.
BlackBoxWeaponModule AttachedAmmoBay Tooltip	An optional ammo bay to add to this weapon. If not used, an external ammo supply will be needed.
BlackBoxWeaponModule TargetsShips Tooltip	Determines if this gun should be fired at capital ships.
BlackBoxWeaponModule TargetsShots Tooltip	Determines if this gun should be fired at missiles and drones.
BlackBoxLaserInfoSubModule Wavelength_nm Tooltip	The wavelength of the laser beam.
BlackBoxLaserInfoSubModule Efficiency_Percent Tooltip	How efficiently the power consumed is converted into usuable energy for the laser.
BlackBoxLaserInfoSubModule ApertureRadius_m Tooltip	The radius of the laser beam exit, which affects how fast the laser diffracts.
BlackBoxLaserInfoSubModule BeamQualityFactor Tooltip	The beam quality factor, which is how far away from a perfect diffraction limited laser this beam will be.
BlackBoxLaserInfoSubModule Coolant Tooltip	The coolant which takes coolant to the radiators.
BlackBoxLaserInfoSubModule CoolantMassFlowRate_kg__s Tooltip	The rate at which coolant is pumped to the radiators.
BlackBoxLaserInfoSubModule RadiatorTemperature_K Tooltip	The temperature at which the exiting coolant to the radiators will be at.
BlackBoxLaserInfoSubModule EngagementRange_km Tooltip	The set range of the laser.
BlackBoxRadiationSubModule GammaRadiation_W Tooltip	How much gamma radiation this module will produce.
BlackBoxRadiationSubModule ThermalNeutronRadiation_W Tooltip	How much thermal neutron radiation this module will produce.
BlackBoxRadiationSubModule FastNeutronRadiation_W Tooltip	How much fast neutron radiation this module will produce.
BlackBoxPowerModule PowerplantName Tooltip	The name of your custom, hypothetical powerplant.
BlackBoxPowerModule ModelFileName Tooltip	The name of the .obj to use for your powerplant. The obj file must be located in [SaveDirectory]/Mods/Models/. Put in the obj name, but leave off the ".obj" suffix. If the obj file is not found, a simple cylinder is used instead.
BlackBoxPowerModule Dimensions Tooltip	The radius and height of your powerplant.
BlackBoxPowerModule Mass_kg Tooltip	The total mass of your powerplant.
BlackBoxPowerModule PrimaryComposition Tooltip	The main material that your powerplant is made out of.
BlackBoxPowerModule PowerProduction_W Tooltip	How much power your powerplant will generate.
BlackBoxPowerModule Efficiency_Percent Tooltip	Determines how much heat your powerplant will generate, based on your powerproduction.
BlackBoxPowerModule Coolant Tooltip	What kind of coolant the powerplant uses to cool itself.
BlackBoxPowerModule OutletMassFlow_kg__s Tooltip	How much coolant this module will push out to radiators per second.
BlackBoxPowerModule OutletTemperature_K Tooltip	How hot or cold the exiting coolant will be when it goes out to radiators.
BlackBoxPowerModule RadiationHazard Tooltip	The radiation that this powerplant will generate.
CargoModule Mass_kg Tooltip	The total mass of the cargo.
CargoModule AspectRatio Tooltip	The aspect ratio of the cargo module.
CargoModule Shell Tooltip	The material this cargo module is made from.
LevelRecord TimeElapsed_s Tooltip	How long it took to complete this mission.
LevelRecord DeltaVSpent_km__s Tooltip	How much Delta V your capital ships spent to complete this mission.
LevelRecord CapitalShipsAlive_Percent Tooltip	What percent of your capital ships survived this mission.
LevelRecord CapitalShipsUnscathed_Percent Tooltip	What percent of your capital ships survived without suffering any damage this mission.
LevelRecord EnemyModulesLeft_Percent Tooltip	What percent of the enemy ship modules were not destroyed. More is better, since the purpose of the mission is to leave the enemy alive but disabled.

DesignMessage MassProjectilePayloadTooBig Text	Payload is larger than barrel bore radius.
DesignMessage MassProjectilePayloadTooBig ExtraInfo	Increase the bore radius of your sabot until the payload fits, or fire a smaller payload.
DesignMessage MassProjectileBarrelTooShort Text	Projectile is too long for barrel.
DesignMessage MassProjectileBarrelTooShort ExtraInfo	Increase the length of the weapon's barrel until the payload and sabot fit.
DesignMessage MassProjectileProjectileWillShatter Text	Internal pressure (%s) will shatter projectile (tensile strength %s).
DesignMessage MassProjectileProjectileWillShatter ExtraInfo	Reduce the peak acceleration on the projectile, or use a projectile with a greater Ultimate Tensile Strength.
DesignMessage WeaponModuleNoSpeed Text	Weapon has no exit speed.
DesignMessage WeaponModuleNoSpeed ExtraInfo	A projectile must have an exit speed to be viable.
DesignMessage WeaponModuleNoTargeting Text	Weapon is not set to target anything.
DesignMessage WeaponModuleNoTargeting ExtraInfo	Set the weapon's "Target Shots" or "Target Ships" property or both.
DesignMessage WeaponModuleLowSpeed Text	Weapon has a very low exit speed (%s), and will likely be ineffective in combat.
DesignMessage WeaponModuleLowSpeed ExtraInfo	Increase the acceleration of the projectile by increasing the power or energy transferred to the projectile, or increase the time spent accelerating the projectile by increasing the weapon length.
DesignMessage WeaponModuleNarrowAngle Text	Weapon has a narrow turning angle (%s), yielding a small firing arc.
DesignMessage WeaponModuleNarrowAngle ExtraInfo	Increase the turret's inner radius to accomodate a larger arc size. 
DesignMessage WeaponModuleSlowTurnSpeed Text	Weapon has a very slow turning speed (%s).
DesignMessage WeaponModuleSlowTurnSpeed ExtraInfo	Increase the turret's momentum wheel speed or the inner turret size (which will yield larger momentum wheels) to turn faster.
DesignMessage WeaponModuleCantCool Text	Weapon can not cool itself radiatively.
DesignMessage WeaponModuleCantCool ExtraInfo	Use a barrel material which can effectively cool down this weapon.
DesignMessage BarrelBeamDeflectionStress Text	Barrel (yield strength %s) will deform from beam deflection stress (%s).
DesignMessage BarrelBeamDeflectionStress ExtraInfo	Use a barrel material with a greater Yield Strength, or reduce the deflection stress. The deflection stress can be reduced by having a thicker or shorter barrel, by using a stronger barrel material, or by reducing the peak force on the projectile.
DesignMessage BarrelThermalExpansionStress Text	Barrel will shatter from thermal expansion stress.
DesignMessage BarrelThermalExpansionStress ExtraInfo	Use a barrel material with a smaller Thermal Expansion coefficient, smaller Young's Modulus, greater Yield Strength, or reduce the heating of your weapon.
DesignMessage BarrelInternalPressureTooGreat Text	Internal pressure (%s) will rupture barrel.
DesignMessage BarrelInternalPressureTooGreat ExtraInfo	Increase the radius of the barrel, or reduce the peak force on the projectile, to reduce the pressure. Alternatively, use a material with a stronger Yield Strength for your barrel.
DesignMessage AmmoModuleSuppliedModuleErrors Text	Supplied Module is not operational.
DesignMessage AmmoModuleSuppliedModuleErrors ExtraInfo	Fix the errors with the supplied module. Otherwise, this ammo module will not work either.
DesignMessage BarrelCoolerTemperatureInvalid Text	Ambient temperature is below 0 K.
DesignMessage BarrelCoolerTemperatureInvalid ExtraInfo	Increase the ambient temperature until it is a physically valid temperature.
DesignMessage BarrelCoolerWarmerThanAmbient Text	Coolant temperature is greater than the ambient temperature.
DesignMessage BarrelCoolerWarmerThanAmbient ExtraInfo	Reduce the coolant temperature below the ambient temperature.
DesignMessage CrewModuleAtmosphericStress Text	Outer walls can't withstand one atmosphere of pressure.
DesignMessage CrewModuleAtmosphericStress ExtraInfo	Use a material with a greater Yield Strength, or use a thicker shell.
DesignMessage CrewModuleDecksTooSmall Text	Decks are too small to accommodate the crew.
DesignMessage CrewModuleDecksTooSmall ExtraInfo	Each deck must be able to accomodate a single person either at ready or sleeping. Reduce the deck count or increase the overall size or use a stronger material which will allow thinner supports.
DesignMessage ReactionWheelWheelStress Text	Wheel Stress (%s) exceeds material yield strength (%s).
DesignMessage ReactionWheelWheelStress ExtraInfo	Use a material with a greater Yield Strength, or reduce the stress on the wheel, by either reducing the rotational speed, or by reducing the radius of the wheel.
DesignMessage TurretMotorTorqueStall Text	Turret will stall out (stall torque of %s) and produce no torque (actual torque %s).
DesignMessage TurretMotorTorqueStall ExtraInfo	Add more power, or reduce the mass of the turning object.
DesignMessage TurretMotorTooSmall Text	Motor can not fit into the dimensions given.
DesignMessage TurretMotorTooSmall ExtraInfo	Reduce the power, increase the size of the housing, or use a permanent magnet with higher coercivity and remanence.
DesignMessage LinearInductionMotorMelting Text	Forcer exceeds safety temperature margins from heating.
DesignMessage LinearInductionMotorMelting ExtraInfo	Use a forcer material with a greater Melting Point, or reduce the energy put into the linear induction motor.
DesignMessage LinearInductionMotorThermalExpansionStress Text	Forcer will crack from thermal expansion stress.
DesignMessage LinearInductionMotorThermalExpansionStress ExtraInfo	Use a forcer material with a greater Yield Strength, lower Young's Modulus, lower Thermal Expansion coefficient, or reduce the heat gradient across the material, either by reducing the energy in, or increasing the forcer mass.
DesignMessage BlastLauncherWallsTooWeak Text	Blast Walls are too weak.
DesignMessage BlastLauncherWallsTooWeak ExtraInfo	Use a weaker explosive or an armor/structure material with a greater tensile strength.
DesignMessage CylindricalCoolerPipesTooLarge Text	Coolant pipes are too large for cylinder.
DesignMessage CylindricalCoolerPipesTooLarge ExtraInfo	Reduce the coolant pipe radius, or increase the size of the cooling module.
DesignMessage TurretRadiusTooLarge Text	Object Radius is too large for turret.
DesignMessage TurretRadiusTooLarge ExtraInfo	Reduce the size of the object being turreted, or increase the inner radius of the turret.
DesignMessage ConventionalGunGrainsTooLarge Text	Propellant grains are too large for barrel.
DesignMessage ConventionalGunGrainsTooLarge ExtraInfo	Reduce the size of the propellant grains, or increase the bore radius of the weapon.
DesignMessage ConventionalGunPropellantStillBurning Text	Propellant is still burning by the time projectile leaves the barrel. This indicates great inefficiency, and that the weapon is extremely wasteful of its propellant.
DesignMessage ConventionalGunPropellantStillBurning ExtraInfo	Use a faster burning propellant, use less propellant, reduce the propellant grain size, use a longer barrel, or significantly increase the mass of the projectile and/or payload.
DesignMessage ConventionalGunGasRupture Text	Barrel (yield strength %s) will rupture from gas expansion stress (%s).
DesignMessage ConventionalGunGasRupture ExtraInfo	Use a barrel material with a greater Yield Strength, or reduce the peak gas expansion stress. That can be done by using a wider barrel, a thicker barrel, slower burning propellant, or using less propellant.
DesignMessage CoilgunSaturation Text	Coil becomes magnetically saturated. This means much of the magnetic field energy is wasted as the projectile's magnetic potential caps out, and begins behaving paramagnetically rather than ferromagnetically.
DesignMessage CoilgunSaturation ExtraInfo	Use a projectile material with a greater Saturation Flux Density, or a much more massive projectile.
DesignMessage RailgunProjectileMeltage Text	Projectile exceeds safety temperature margins (%s excess meltage).
DesignMessage RailgunProjectileMeltage ExtraInfo	Increase the rail conductivity, increase the rail thickness, reduce the armature mass, or use a armature material that is more dense or has a greater specific heat.
DesignMessage RailgunRailsMeltage Text	Rails will suffer excessive melt ablation (%s excess meltage).
DesignMessage RailgunRailsMeltage ExtraInfo	Increase the rail conductivity, increase the rail thickness, reduce the armature mass, or use a rail material that is more dense or has a greater specific heat.
DesignMessage CapacitorVoltage Text	Capacitor has too high of voltage.
DesignMessage CapacitorVoltage ExtraInfo	Use a material with a lower breakdown voltage, or use a smaller separation.
DesignMessage NuclearPayloadFusionLawsonCriterionFailure Text	Fusion reaction will not be self-sustained, because it does not satisfy the Lawson Criterion. This indicates that the fusion boosting will be largely ineffective and irrelevant.
DesignMessage NuclearPayloadFusionLawsonCriterionFailure ExtraInfo	Reduce the volume upon which the fusion reaction takes place in, or use a fusion reaction with greater energy.
DesignMessage NuclearPayloadIneffectiveImplosion Text	Assembly will not implode, and the core will not go critical.
DesignMessage NuclearPayloadIneffectiveImplosion ExtraInfo	Increase the compression of the assembly, by increasing the ratio of detonation velocities of the fast and slow explosives. Alternatively, use more explosives, or use a smaller fissile core.
DesignMessage NuclearPayloadDensityFailure Text	Assembly will not go supercritical.
DesignMessage NuclearPayloadDensityFailure ExtraInfo	Increase the compression of the assembly, with more explosives, a greater range of explosive detonation velocities, or a smaller fissile core.
DesignMessage NuclearPayloadImmediateCriticality Text	Assembly will go supercritical immediately and spontaneously.
DesignMessage NuclearPayloadImmediateCriticality ExtraInfo	Reduce the amount of fissile mass used, or add in a larger hollow space within the core.
DesignMessage NuclearPayloadNoExplosion Text	Nuclear detonation will fail to generate an explosion or its wavelength is invalid.
DesignMessage NuclearPayloadNoExplosion ExtraInfo	Ensure the device will achieve criticality and has a valid explosion profile.
DesignMessage NuclearPayloadFusionBoostStressFailure Text	Fusion fuel pressure stress (%s) will crack the assembly (strength %s) before it can be used.
DesignMessage NuclearPayloadFusionBoostStressFailure ExtraInfo	Reduce the fusion fuel density, increase the hollow size, or use stronger materials to form the assembly.
DesignMessage ThermoelectricFissionReactorLowTemperature Text	An exit temperature less than 1000 K may require an enormous amount of radiators to cool, since radiator efficiency is directly proportional to temperature.
DesignMessage ThermoelectricFissionReactorLowTemperature ExtraInfo	Increase the exit temperature of the reactor to compensate.
DesignMessage RadioisotopeThermoelectricGeneratorFuelMelts Text	Radioisotope fuel exceeds safety temperature margins.
DesignMessage RadioisotopeThermoelectricGeneratorFuelMelts ExtraInfo	To fix, use a fuel with a higher melting point or lower energy density. Alternatively, reduce your exit temperature, or reduce the length of your thermocouple.
DesignMessage CombustionMixtureIgnitionFailure Text	Composition will not ignite!
DesignMessage CombustionMixtureIgnitionFailure ExtraInfo	Reduce the mass percentage of the delay composition, or use a more powerful combustion reaction.
DesignMessage RefuelerFluidTemperature Text	Fluid will melt the hose.
DesignMessage RefuelerFluidTemperature ExtraInfo	Use a fluid with a lower melting point, or a hose material with a higher melting point.
DesignMessage FlareSupersonicCombustion Text	Laminar flame speed is supersonic. Composition will detonate rather than deflagrate.
DesignMessage FlareSupersonicCombustion ExtraInfo	Use a greater mass percentage of delay composition, or use a combustion reaction with a lower energy density.
DesignMessage LensEntryIntensity Text	%s (%s threshold) can't withstand entry intensity (%s).
DesignMessage LensEntryIntensity ExtraInfo	Increase the radius of the optic to reduce the intensity, or pass less energy through the optic.
DesignMessage LensExitIntensity Text	%s (%s threshold) can't withstand exit intensity (%s).
DesignMessage LensExitIntensity ExtraInfo	Increase the radius of the optic to reduce the intensity, or pass less energy through the optic.
DesignMessage ArcLampCavityShape Text	The lasing rod and the arclamp do not fit within the arclamp cavity.
DesignMessage ArcLampCavityShape ExtraInfo	Increase the size of the cavity to accomodate the lasing rod and arclamp.
DesignMessage ArcLampEnvelopePressure Text	The arc lamp envelope will rupture from the stress.
DesignMessage ArcLampEnvelopePressure ExtraInfo	Use a stronger envelope material, or increase the size of the arc lamp, or pump less power through it.
DesignMessage ArcLampThermalExpansionStress Text	Arclamp envelope (strength of %s) will crack from thermal expansion stress (%s).
DesignMessage ArcLampThermalExpansionStress ExtraInfo	Reduce the power passing through the arclamp envelope, or use a material with a greater Ultimate Tensile Strength, lower Young's Modulus, or lower Thermal Expansion coefficient. Alternatively, increase the surface area of the arclamp to reduce the energy per unit area.
DesignMessage LaserOutputFluxZero Text	Output Flux is zero.
DesignMessage LaserOutputFluxZero ExtraInfo	The laser does not work. Correct all errors with the laser, and increase all efficiencies beyond zero to proceed.
DesignMessage LaserBeamQualityFactorTooHigh Text	M^2 (Beam Quality Factor) is too high to be reasonably effective.
DesignMessage LaserBeamQualityFactorTooHigh ExtraInfo	The M^2 (Beam Quality Factor), or how far from a "perfect Gaussian" beam your laser is. Roughly, your beam waist will increase by this factor, causing your damage to reduce by the square of the M^2.
DesignMessage LaserArcLampMelt Text	Arc Lamp Envelope exceeds safety temperature margins.
DesignMessage LaserArcLampMelt ExtraInfo	Reduce the inlet temperature of your coolant, reduce the temperature increase from firing, or use a material with a higher melting point.
DesignMessage LaserOpticalCavityMelt Text	Optical cavity exceeds safety temperature margins.
DesignMessage LaserOpticalCavityMelt ExtraInfo	Reduce the inlet temperature of your coolant, reduce the temperature increase from firing, or use a material with a higher melting point.
DesignMessage LaserMirrorMelt Text	Mirror exceeds safety temperature margins.
DesignMessage LaserMirrorMelt ExtraInfo	Reduce the inlet temperature of your coolant, reduce the temperature increase from firing, or use a material with a higher melting point.
DesignMessage LaserOutputCouplerMelt Text	Output Coupler exceeds safety temperature margins.
DesignMessage LaserOutputCouplerMelt ExtraInfo	Reduce the inlet temperature of your coolant, reduce the temperature increase from firing, or use a material with a higher melting point.
DesignMessage LaserGainMediumMelt Text	Gain Medium exceeds safety temperature margins.
DesignMessage LaserGainMediumMelt ExtraInfo	Reduce the inlet temperature of your coolant, reduce the temperature increase from firing, or use a material with a higher melting point.
DesignMessage LaserCoolantFreeze Text	Coolant will freeze.
DesignMessage LaserCoolantFreeze ExtraInfo	Increase the inlet temperature of your coolant, increase the temperature increase from firing, or use coolant with a lower melting point.
DesignMessage LaserLensTooBig Text	Focusing mirror radius is bigger than turret radius. The focusing mirror is much larger than the aperture to prevent beam truncation.
DesignMessage LaserLensTooBig ExtraInfo	Increase the turret inner radius, or reduce your aperture radius.
DesignMessage LaserMountHasNoFeed Text	Laser mount has no laser feeding into it.
DesignMessage LaserMountHasNoFeed ExtraInfo	Create a laser for this mount to feed into.
DesignMessage RadiatorNoPipes Text	Can't fit any heat pipes in the radiator.
DesignMessage RadiatorNoPipes ExtraInfo	Increase the width of your radiator, or reduce the inner thickness of your radiator panels.
DesignMessage RadiatorMeltage Text	Radiator exceeds safety temperature margins.
DesignMessage RadiatorMeltage ExtraInfo	Use a radiator with a higher material melting point, or don't have it cool a module with such a high outlet temperature.
DesignMessage PropellantTankPropellantTooHot Text	Propellant will melt the tank walls.
DesignMessage PropellantTankPropellantTooHot ExtraInfo	Use tank walls with higher melting points, or use a propellant with a lower melting point.
DesignMessage ThermalRocketWallMelt Text	Chamber wall temperature (%s) exceeds the safety temperature margins (%s).
DesignMessage ThermalRocketWallMelt ExtraInfo	Use a chamber wall material with a higher melting point, or reduce the chamber temperature.
DesignMessage ThermalRocketOverheating Text	Engine can not dissipate heat fast enough. %s of excess heat generated.
DesignMessage ThermalRocketOverheating ExtraInfo	Use a larger nozzle to dissipate heat radiatively, use a larger percentage of regenerative cooling pipes, or run the engine colder.
DesignMessage ThermalRocketOverpressurized Text	Chamber (yield strength %s) will crack from internal pressure (%s).
DesignMessage ThermalRocketOverpressurized ExtraInfo	Reduce the pressure of the chamber by increasing the chamber radius, by reducing the mass flow rate determined by the injector, by reducing the chamber temperature, or use a chamber material with a higher Yield Strength or lower Young's Modulus.
DesignMessage ThermalRocketThermalExpansionStress Text	Engine (yield strength %s) will crack from thermal expansion stress (%s).
DesignMessage ThermalRocketThermalExpansionStress ExtraInfo	Decrease the chamber wall thickness, reduce the temperature of the engine, use a chamber material with a higher Yield Strength, lower Young's Modulus, or lower Thermal Expansion coefficient, or reduce the percent of the chamber which uses regenerative cooling.
DesignMessage NuclearReactorElementsWontFit Text	Reactor elements will not fit into the reactor dimensions.
DesignMessage NuclearReactorElementsWontFit ExtraInfo	Make the reactor larger, or have less fuel, moderator, or control rod mass in the reactor.
DesignMessage NuclearReactorCriticalityDoesntSpan Text	Criticality Constant does not span Subcritical to Supercritical range.
DesignMessage NuclearReactorCriticalityDoesntSpan ExtraInfo	The upwards criticality constant needs to be increased to supercriticality, and the lower range should be in the subcritical range. To get a larger lower range, add more neutron poisons in the form of control rods. To get a greater upwards criticality range, things that could help include increasing the fuel mass, fuel enrichment, moderator mass, the choice of moderator and coolant, and the dimensions of the reactor core itself.
DesignMessage NuclearReactorCoolantFreeze Text	Coolant will freeze.
DesignMessage NuclearReactorCoolantFreeze ExtraInfo	Increase the inlet coolant temperature into the reactor so the coolant does not freeze, or use a coolant with a lower melting point.
DesignMessage NuclearReactorModeratorMelt Text	Moderator exceeds safety temperature margins.
DesignMessage NuclearReactorModeratorMelt ExtraInfo	Use a material with a higher melting point, or reduce the overall temperature generated by the nuclear reactor, done primarily by reducing the neutron flux. It can also be reduced by lowering the fuel mass, or the fuel enrichment.
DesignMessage NuclearReactorFuelRodsMelt Text	Fuel rods exceeds safety temperature margins.
DesignMessage NuclearReactorFuelRodsMelt ExtraInfo	Use a material with a higher melting point, or reduce the overall temperature generated by the nuclear reactor, done primarily by reducing the neutron flux. It can also be reduced by lowering the fuel mass, or the fuel enrichment.
DesignMessage NuclearReactorControlRodsMelt Text	Control rods exceeds safety temperature margins.
DesignMessage NuclearReactorControlRodsMelt ExtraInfo	Use a material with a higher melting point, or reduce the overall temperature generated by the nuclear reactor, done primarily by reducing the neutron flux. It can also be reduced by lowering the fuel mass, or the fuel enrichment.
DesignMessage NuclearReactorReflectorMelt Text	Neutron Reflector exceeds safety temperature margins.
DesignMessage NuclearReactorReflectorMelt ExtraInfo	Use a material with a higher melting point, or reduce the overall temperature generated by the nuclear reactor, done primarily by reducing the neutron flux. It can also be reduced by lowering the fuel mass, or the fuel enrichment.
DesignMessage NuclearReactorTooShortLifetime Text	Reactor has too short of an operational lifetime. It will burn through enough fuel to lose criticality before its operational lifetime is up.
DesignMessage NuclearReactorTooShortLifetime ExtraInfo	Reduce the neutron flux, or increase the fuel mass, fuel enrichment, or use a more energy dense fuel.
DesignMessage PowerModuleTooMuchHeat Text	Generates more heat than it can dissipate.
DesignMessage PowerModuleTooMuchHeat ExtraInfo	Reduce the amount of power and heat generated, increase the coolant flow rate, or increase the coolant heat transfer coefficient.
DesignMessage ThermocouplePTypeMelt Text	Temperature exceeds PType Material safe temperature.
DesignMessage ThermocouplePTypeMelt ExtraInfo	Use a P Type material with a higher melting point, or reduce the maximum temperature through the thermocouple.
DesignMessage ThermocoupleNTypeMelt Text	Temperature exceeds NType Material safe temperature.
DesignMessage ThermocoupleNTypeMelt ExtraInfo	Use an N Type material with a higher melting point, or reduce the maximum temperature through the thermocouple.
DesignMessage ThermocoupleNegativeTemperatureDelta Text	Thermcouple hot temperature is less than its cold temperature.
DesignMessage ThermocoupleNegativeTemperatureDelta ExtraInfo	Make the inlet into the thermocouple hotter than the outlet from the thermocouple.
DesignMessage ThermocouplePTypeThermalExpansionStress Text	P Type Material will crack from thermal expansion stress (%s) vs yield strength (%s).
DesignMessage ThermocouplePTypeThermalExpansionStress ExtraInfo	Use a P Type Material with a greater Yield Strength, a lower Young's Modulus, or a lower Thermal Expansion coefficient, or reduce the temperature delta across the thermocouple.
DesignMessage ThermocoupleNTypeThermalExpansionStress Text	N Type Material will crack from thermal expansion stress (%s) vs yield strength (%s).
DesignMessage ThermocoupleNTypeThermalExpansionStress ExtraInfo	Use an N Type Material with a greater Yield Strength, a lower Young's Modulus, or a lower Thermal Expansion coefficient, or reduce the temperature delta across the thermocouple.
DesignMessage ResistojetCoilMelt Text	Coil (melting point %s) exceeds safety temperature margins.
DesignMessage ResistojetCoilMelt ExtraInfo	Use a coil material with a higher melting point, or reduce the temperature in the chamber. This can be done by applying less power, or by reducing the mass flow rate of the injector.
DesignMessage ResistojetRadiusTooSmall Text	Coil Outer Radius is smaller than coil inner diameter.
DesignMessage ResistojetRadiusTooSmall ExtraInfo	Reduce the coil radius, or use a larger chamber.
DesignMessage ResistojetPropellantNotVaporized Text	Resistojet needs to fully vaporize propellant to utilize expansion nozzle.
DesignMessage ResistojetPropellantNotVaporized ExtraInfo	Increase the power, or reduce the mass flow by reducing the injector size or rotation speed.
DesignMessage TurboelectricFissionReactorColdDrop Text	Temperature ends at a colder state than inlet.
DesignMessage TurboelectricFissionReactorColdDrop ExtraInfo	Do not extract as much temperature energy from the coolant in the turbine.
DesignMessage TurboelectricFissionReactorPressureDrop Text	Pressure ends at a lower state than inlet.
DesignMessage TurboelectricFissionReactorPressureDrop ExtraInfo	Do not extract as much pressure energy from the coolant in the turbine.
DesignMessage TurboelectricFissionReactorEntrySonicPoint Text	Turbine Entry has a sonic point.
DesignMessage TurboelectricFissionReactorEntrySonicPoint ExtraInfo	Reduce the areal change going into the turbine.
DesignMessage TurboelectricFissionReactorExitSonicPoint Text	Turbine Exit has a sonic point.
DesignMessage TurboelectricFissionReactorExitSonicPoint ExtraInfo	Reduce the areal change exiting the turbine.
DesignMessage TurboelectricFissionReactorCondensation Text	Coolant must stay in gas phase during entire Brayton cycle.
DesignMessage TurboelectricFissionReactorCondensation ExtraInfo	Use a coolant with a lower boiling point, or increase the inlet temperature of the coolant.
DesignMessage TurboelectricFissionReactorFlowPointInvalid Text	Flow Point "%s" is invalid.
DesignMessage TurboelectricFissionReactorFlowPointInvalid ExtraInfo	The temperature, pressure, mass flow rate, or area of the coolant at the flow point is in an impossible state.
DesignMessage TurbomachineBladesMelting Text	Turbomachine blades exceeds safety temperature margins.
DesignMessage TurbomachineBladesMelting ExtraInfo	Use a turbomachine material with a higher melting point, or reduce the fluid temperature passing through the turbomachine.
DesignMessage TurbomachineBladeStress Text	Turbomachine blade stress (%s) exceeds blade yield strength (%s).
DesignMessage TurbomachineBladeStress ExtraInfo	Use a turbomachine material with a greater Yield Strength, or reduce the rotational speed of the turbomachine.
DesignMessage TurbomachineHubStress Text	Turbomachine hub stress (%s) exceeds blade yield strength (%s).
DesignMessage TurbomachineHubStress ExtraInfo	Use a turbomachine material with a greater Yield Strength, or reduce the stress on it by reducing the turbomachine speed.
DesignMessage TurbomachineThermalExpansionStress Text	Turbomachine hermal expansion stress (%s) exceeds blade yield strength (%s).
DesignMessage TurbomachineThermalExpansionStress ExtraInfo	Use a turbomachine material with a greater Yield Strength, lower Thermal Expansion coefficient, or lower Young's Modulus. Alternatively, reduce the temperature delta in the fluid.
DesignMessage TurbomachineFlowFreeze Text	Turbomachine flow will freeze.
DesignMessage TurbomachineFlowFreeze ExtraInfo	Increase the temperature of the fluid, or use a fluid with a lower melting point.
DesignMessage MPDThrusterOnsetPhenomenon Text	Thruster will suffer from onset phenomenon and suffer overwhelming erosion.
DesignMessage MPDThrusterOnsetPhenomenon ExtraInfo	Reduce the thruster current, increase the mass flow rate from the injector, or use a propellant with a greater atomic mass.
DesignMessage MPDThrusterAnodeStress Text	Anode (yield strength %s) will shatter from internal stress (%s).
DesignMessage MPDThrusterAnodeStress ExtraInfo	Use an anode with a greater Yield Strength, or reduce the stress on it, by using a longer or wider thruster, or by having lower thrust.
DesignMessage MPDThrusterCathodeStress Text	Cathode (yield strength %s) will shatter from external stress (%s).
DesignMessage MPDThrusterCathodeStress ExtraInfo	Use a cathode with a greater Yield Strength, or reduce the stress on it, by using a larger Cathode Radius, a longer thruster, or by having a lower thrust.
DesignMessage MPDThrusterInsulatorStress Text	Insulator (yield strength %s) will shatter from propulsive stress (%s).
DesignMessage MPDThrusterInsulatorStress ExtraInfo	Use an insulator with a greater Yield Strength, or reduce the stress on it, by having a larger area between the cathode and the anode, or by having a lower thrust.
DesignMessage MPDThrusterInsulatorConductivity Text	Insulator is a better conductor than the thruster!
DesignMessage MPDThrusterInsulatorConductivity ExtraInfo	Use an insulator with a greater resistivity than the vacuum gap, and use a thinner insulator than the vacuum gap.
DesignMessage MPDThrusterLongEnough Text	Thruster is too short for the propellant to dissociate, ionize, and accelerate to full exit velocity.
DesignMessage MPDThrusterLongEnough ExtraInfo	Increase the length of the thruster, increase the area of the thruster, or reduce the flow rate of propellant into the thruster.
DesignMessage EngineModuleSlowGimbal Text	Rocket gimbals very slowly.
DesignMessage EngineModuleSlowGimbal ExtraInfo	Increase the inner radius of the gimbals, or increase the speed of the momentum wheels within them.
DesignMessage BlackBoxWeaponCantDoBothWeaponTypes Text	Weapon must fire either a laser and a projectile.
DesignMessage BlackBoxWeaponCantDoBothWeaponTypes ExtraInfo	The weapon should only fire a laser, or only a projectile, not both, and not neither.
DesignMessage ShipDesignNoCommand Text	This spacecraft has no command module, but it has modules that require controlling.
DesignMessage ShipDesignNoCommand ExtraInfo	Add a remote control (to make a missile or drone), or add a crew module (to make a capital ship). Or, remove the modules that require controlling (to make a shot).
DesignMessage ShipDesignHasPayloadAndCrew Text	This craft has both payloads and a crew. Payloads are one time use modules meant for uncrewed crafts such as missiles and shots.
DesignMessage ShipDesignHasPayloadAndCrew ExtraInfo	If you want to have the craft launch a payload, like a nuke, an explosive, or flares, instead add a launcher which launches those things, such as a carrier module or a cannon which shoots such things.
DesignMessage ShipDesignPartialArmor Text	Craft has only partial armor, which is weaker and will separate more easily than full armor.
DesignMessage ShipDesignPartialArmor ExtraInfo	Armor which does not contain the entirity of the spacecraft will be weaker since the compartment trusses are the main support. This means the craft will split in half much more easily. To solve, fully conceal the craft in armor, or accept this weakness.
DesignMessage ShipDesignCantRoll Text	Ship can turn but cannot roll.
DesignMessage ShipDesignCantRoll ExtraInfo	A ship which can't roll is unable spin about it's long axis. This is generally not a problem if the craft is fully armored. However, if only one side is armored, a craft needs to be able to roll to spin it's armored side to meet the enemy.
DesignMessage ShipDesignRadiatorUnworkableInterreflection Text	Radiator %s suffers interreflection with another radiator.
DesignMessage ShipDesignRadiatorUnworkableInterreflection ExtraInfo	Move these radiators apart, either along the length of the ship, or along the rotation of the ship.
DesignMessage ShipDesignModuleIntersection Text	Module %s is intersecting with another module.
DesignMessage ShipDesignModuleIntersection ExtraInfo	Move this module, or the module that it intersects, until they no longer intersect one another.
DesignMessage ShipDesignModuleSelfIntersection Text	%s modules are self intersecting.
DesignMessage ShipDesignModuleSelfIntersection ExtraInfo	Reduce the module count, or move these modules to a part of your spacecraft with a greater radius.
DesignMessage ShipDesignModulesAreUncooled Text	%s modules are uncooled, and will be unusable.
DesignMessage ShipDesignModulesAreUncooled ExtraInfo	Attach radiators to these modules to cool them.
DesignMessage ShipDesignModulesAreImproperlyCooled Text	Radiators cooling %s modules remove only %s of heat out of %s. Poorly cooled modules may either not function, or function at reduced efficiency.
DesignMessage ShipDesignModulesAreImproperlyCooled ExtraInfo	Attach more radiators to these modules to fully cool them.
DesignMessage ShipDesignNoAmmo Text	%s does not have ammo supplied to it.
DesignMessage ShipDesignNoAmmo ExtraInfo	Remove this weapon, or add an ammo module which supplies this weapon, otherwise it's dead mass.
DesignMessage ShipDesignAmmoIrrelevant Text	There is no weapon which uses the ammo of %s.
DesignMessage ShipDesignAmmoIrrelevant ExtraInfo	Remove this module, or add a weapon which uses this ammo module, otherwise it's dead mass.
DesignMessage ShipDesignModulesHaveErrors Text	Modules in use have Errors!
DesignMessage ShipDesignModulesHaveErrors ExtraInfo	Remove the modules that have errors, or fixes up these modules' errors.
DesignMessage ShipDesignModuleIsUnpowered Text	%s is not supplied enough power.
DesignMessage ShipDesignModuleIsUnpowered ExtraInfo	Remove the modules that have this issue, or add more powerplants.
DesignMessage ShipDesignRadiatorIsNotInUse Text	%s is not in use.
DesignMessage ShipDesignRadiatorIsNotInUse ExtraInfo	Remove this radiator, or have it cool a module, otherwise it is dead mass.
DesignMessage ShipDesignWeaponNeedsToFeedAnotherWeapon Text	%s needs to feed into a mount.
DesignMessage ShipDesignWeaponNeedsToFeedAnotherWeapon ExtraInfo	Remove this weapon, or add mounts to fire it with, otherwise it is dead mass.
DesignMessage ShipDesignWeaponHasNarrowFiringArc Text	%s has a narrow firing arc because the ship's armor blocks it.
DesignMessage ShipDesignWeaponHasNarrowFiringArc ExtraInfo	Place this weapon on a more outwards part of the ship, or accept the reduced firing arc.
DesignMessage ShipDesignPropellantTankNotInUse Text	%s is not supplying reaction mass to any engine, or to any refueler.
DesignMessage ShipDesignPropellantTankNotInUse ExtraInfo	Remove this propellant tank, or add an engine or refueler which uses it.
DesignMessage ShipDesignNoReactionMassForEngine Text	%s does not have all the correct reaction mass types supplied to it.
DesignMessage ShipDesignNoReactionMassForEngine ExtraInfo	Remove this engine, or add propellant tanks to supply it fully with reaction mass.
DesignMessage ShipDesignNoReactionMassForRefueler Text	%s does not any propellant tanks to pump from.
DesignMessage ShipDesignNoReactionMassForRefueler ExtraInfo	Remove this refueler, or add propellant tanks to supply it fully with reaction mass.
DesignMessage ShipDesignCanThrustButNotTurn Text	Spacecraft can thrust, but can't turn through full range of motion.
DesignMessage ShipDesignCanThrustButNotTurn ExtraInfo	Give the craft gimballed thrusters, or vernier thrusters, which can torque on either side of the spacecraft's center of mass. Or, remove all thrusters altogether.
DesignMessage ShipDesignCrewModuleRadSafe Text	%s is not radiation safe!
DesignMessage ShipDesignCrewModuleRadSafe ExtraInfo	Move the crew module away from radiation sources, like nuclear reactors or nuclear engines. Alternatively, add radiation shielding between the sources and this module.
DesignMessage ShipDesignNotEnoughCrew Text	Not enough crew. %s Supplied, %s Required.
DesignMessage ShipDesignNotEnoughCrew ExtraInfo	Add more crew modules, or reduce the number of other modules to cut back on crew needed.

TimeName Second	Second
TimeName Minute	Minute
TimeName Hour	Hour
TimeName Day	Day
TimeName Month	Month
TimeName Year	Year
TimeNamePlural Second	Seconds
TimeNamePlural Minute	Minutes
TimeNamePlural Hour	Hours
TimeNamePlural Day	Days
TimeNamePlural Month	Months
TimeNamePlural Year	Years
TimeAbbreviation Second	s
TimeAbbreviation Minute	m
TimeAbbreviation Hour	h
TimeAbbreviation Day	D
TimeAbbreviation Month	M
TimeAbbreviation Year	Y
MaterialCategory Metal	Metal
MaterialCategory Nonmetal	Nonmetal
MaterialCategory Fluid	Fluid
MaterialCategory Alloy	Alloy
MaterialCategory Ceramic	Ceramic
MaterialCategory Fiber	Fiber
MaterialCategory OrganicCompound	Organic Compound
MaterialCategory Fissile	Fissile
MaterialCategory Fusile	Fusile
MaterialCategory Explosive	Explosive
MaterialCategory Optic	Optic
MaterialCategory Other	Other
BriefingSubject LevelPresets	Level Presets
BriefingSubject Overview	Overview
BriefingSubject RecommendedReading	Recommended Reading
BriefingSubject Factions	Factions
BriefingSubject CelestialBodies	Celestial Bodies
BriefingSubject AlliedBehavior	Allied Behavior
BriefingSubject EnemyBehavior	Enemy Behavior
BriefingSubject AlliedCrafts	Allied Crafts
BriefingSubject EnemyCrafts	Enemy Crafts
BriefingSubject WeaponsInUse	Weapons In Use
BriefingSubject PayloadsInUse	Ordnances In Use
BriefingSubject News	News
GuidanceAlgorithm Unguided	Unguided
GuidanceAlgorithm PurePursuit	Pure Pursuit
GuidanceAlgorithm DeviatedPursuit	Deviated Pursuit
GuidanceAlgorithm ProportionalNavigation	Proportional Navigation
GuidanceAlgorithm AugmentedProportionalNavigation	Augmented Proportional Navigation
ForceMissilePhase UseDefaultPhases	Use Default Phases
ForceMissilePhase ForceBoostPhase	Force Boost Phase
ForceMissilePhase ForceMidcoursePhase	Force Midcourse Phase
ForceMissilePhase ForceTerminalPhase	Force Terminal Phase
ShipClass Warship	Warship
ShipClass CivilianShip	Civilian Ship
ShipClass Drone	Drone
ShipClass Missile	Missile
ShipClass Payload	Payload
ShipClass Station	Station
GraphicsSetting Off	Off
GraphicsSetting Low	Low
GraphicsSetting Medium	Medium
GraphicsSetting High	High
LevelRating None	None
LevelRating Bronze	Bronze
LevelRating Silver	Silver
LevelRating Gold	Gold
MaterialClass Structural	Structural
MaterialClass Armor	Armor
MaterialClass Fluid	Fluid
MaterialClass ElectricalConductor	Electrical Conductor
MaterialClass ElectricalInsulator	Electrical Insulator
MaterialClass Dielectric	Dielectric
MaterialClass Ferromagnetic	Ferromagnetic
MaterialClass Thermoelectric	Thermoelectric
MaterialClass Combustible	Combustible
MaterialClass DelayCharge	Delay Charge
MaterialClass PyrotechnicColorant	Pyrotechnic Colorant
MaterialClass Fissile	Fissile
MaterialClass Radionuclide	Radionuclide
MaterialClass LaserMedium	Laser Medium
MaterialClass Photovoltaic	Photovoltaic
MaterialClass Optic	Optic
MaterialClass NonlinearOptic	Nonlinear Optic
MaterialClass ExcitationFluid	Excitation Fluid
MaterialClass Paint	Paint
CrewDepartment Admin	Admin
CrewDepartment Operations	Operations
CrewDepartment Engineering	Engineering
CrewDepartment Weapons	Weapons
OrderInfoTypes Cancel	Cancel
OrderInfoTypes Move	Move
OrderInfoTypes Orient	Orient
OrderInfoTypes Roll	Roll
OrderInfoTypes Homing	Homing
OrderInfoTypes Scatter	Scatter
OrderInfoTypes Broadside	Broadside
OrderInfoTypes NoseForward	Nose Forward
OrderInfoTypes Other	Other
MissilePhase Boost	Boost
MissilePhase Midcourse	Midcourse
MissilePhase Terminal	Terminal
TargetPriority AllGuns	All Guns
TargetPriority ActiveLasers	Active Lasers
TargetPriority InactiveLasers	Inactive Lasers
TargetPriority FlareLaunchers	Flare Launchers
TargetPriority OtherLaunchers	Other Launchers
TargetPriority HotRadiators	Hot Radiators
TargetPriority ColdRadiators	Cold Radiators
TargetPriority Engines	Engines
TargetPriority ExternalTanks	External Tanks
AIOrder NoOrder	No Order
AIOrder Homing	Homing
AIOrder Broadside	Broadside
AIOrder NoseForward	Nose Forward
AIOrder Scatter	Scatter
AIOrder Roll	Roll
ArmorShape Cylindrical	Cylindrical
ArmorShape Triangular	Triangular
ArmorShape Square	Square
ArmorShape Pentagonal	Pentagonal
ArmorShape Hexagonal	Hexagonal
ArmorShape Octagonal	Octagonal

UserDesigns	User Designs
CoreDesigns	Core Designs

Space	 
Dash	 - 
Colon	: 
Comma	, 
Slash	 / 
Ellipses	...
LeftParen	(
RightParen	)
